In vitro evaluation of nicotinamide riboside analogs against Haemophilus influenzae.  Exogenous NAD, nicotinamide mononucleotide, or nicotinamide riboside is required for the growth of Haemophilus influenzae.  These compounds have been defined as the V-factor growth requirement.  We have previously shown that the internalization of nicotinamide riboside is energy dependent and carrier mediated with saturation kinetics.  Thionicotinamide riboside, 3-pyridinealdehyde riboside, 3-acetylpyridine riboside, and 3-aminopyridine riboside were prepared from their corresponding NAD analogs.  These compounds and several other nicotinamide riboside analogs were evaluated for their ability to support the growth of H.  influenzae and for their ability to block the uptake of [carbonyl-14C]nicotinamide riboside by H.  influenzae.  3-Aminopyridine riboside blocked the uptake of [carbonyl-14C]nicotinamide riboside and inhibited the growth of H.  influenzae when NAD, nicotinamide mononucleotide, or nicotinamide riboside served as the V factor.  The antibacterial activity of 3-aminopyridine riboside was found to be specific for H.  influenzae but had no effect on the growth of Staphylococcus aureus or Escherichia coli.  In additional experiments by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, it was determined that whole cells of H.  influenzae degrade 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide to 3-aminopyridine riboside, which is then internalized.  Inside the cell, 3-aminopyridine riboside has the ability to interfere with the growth of H.  influenzae by an undetermined mechanism.
Chlamydial infections.  Chlamydia trachomatis is a unique intracellular parasite that causes a number of common sexually transmitted disease syndromes, including nongonococcal urethritis in both men and women, epididymitis in men, and pelvic inflammatory disease in women.  Infants exposed at delivery are at risk for the development of conjunctivitis and pneumonia.  There is strong evidence that Chlamydia is a cause of obstructive infertility and ectopic pregnancy in women.  It appears that these complications result from the chronic inflammatory response and secondary scarring that are elicited by long-term asymptomatic or nearly asymptomatic fallopian tube infections.  Because treatment with tetracycline, doxycycline, or erythromycin is simple, effective, and inexpensive, major efforts should be put into identifying asymptomatic young women through screening of the subpopulations at highest risk.  These include sexually active adolescent women and older women who are not monogamous.  Blacks are at higher risk than other ethnic groups for infection.  The cost of diagnosing chlamydial infection has decreased with the introduction of new nonculture diagnostic tests.  This should increase the availability of testing for screening purposes.  It is critical to remember that male sex partners of infected women must be treated; otherwise all efforts to prevent long-term complications by identifying and treating asymptomatic women are doomed to failure.
Initial evaluation of human monoclonal anti-lipid A antibody (HA-1A) in patients with sepsis syndrome.  HA-1A, a human monoclonal immunoglobulin M antibody that binds specifically to the lipid A domain of endotoxin, was administered to septic patients to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, and immunogenicity of the antibody.  Thirty-four patients received a single infusion of either 25 mg, 100 mg, or 250 mg, and were followed clinically for 14 to 21 days after treatment.  HA-1A serum levels were measured before infusion and frequently after infusion with a radiometric assay.  A one-compartment pharmacokinetic model was fit to the measured serum levels, and accurately described the changes in HA-1A level over time in each dose group (r2 = .99).  The mean +/- SEM apparent volume of distribution of HA-1A was 48.5 +/- 4.5 ml/kg, and the mean serum clearance was 2.8 +/- 0.4 ml/kg.h.  The mean serum half-life of HA-1A was 15.9 +/- 1.5 h.  The mean serum level one hour after a 100-mg dose was 33.2 +/- 2.4 micrograms/ml, and the mean concentration 24 h later was 9.1 +/- 1.6 micrograms/ml.  The dose administered and presence of Gram-negative bacterial infection did not significantly influence the volume of distribution or serum clearance.  No adverse reactions to HA-1A were observed, and no antibodies against HA-1A were detected in any patient.  These data indicate that the pharmacokinetics of HA-1A are well described by a one-compartment pharmacokinetic model, and that HA-1A is safe and nonimmunogenic in patients with sepsis.
Management of Brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess.  Three cases of Brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess are reported.  Two patients were successfully managed by a combination of medical therapy and surgery.  The third patient died suddenly 36 hours after admission to hospital.
Adult immunization in a network of family practice residency programs.  A substantial proportion of morbidity and mortality associated with vaccine-preventable diseases occurs among adults.  Teaching residents about disease prevention is mandated in the curriculum guidelines for family practice programs.  A cooperative study among the Kansas City family practice residency programs was begun to look at immunization behaviors in these teaching programs.  A retrospective audit of medical records and a prospective survey of residents and faculty were performed.  From the medical records of 400 patients seen for health maintenance examinations, the frequency of tetanus-diphtheria immunizations recorded was 4.75%.  The pooled immunization rate recorded for pneumococcal vaccine was 25%, and for influenza vaccine, 24%.  Although 93% of respondents knew patients need tetanus-diphtheria immunization every 10 years, on a written questionnaire giving clinical examples, they were less likely to elect to immunize older patients eligible for tetanus-diphtheria vaccine.  The following immunization criteria were listed by respondents: for pneumococcal vaccine, age over 65 years (86%); for influenza vaccine, age over 65 years (85%), chronic diseases (69%), residence in a chronic care facility (7%), and being a health care worker (28%).  Educational interventions stressing the appropriate criteria and involvement of the patient are planned at the separate programs.
Properties of strains of Escherichia coli O26:H11 in relation to their enteropathogenic or enterohemorrhagic classification.  Thirty-seven strains of Escherichia coli O26:H11 from infants and calves with diarrhea were examined for properties associated with enteropathogenic (EPEC) or enterohemorrhagic E.  coli (EHEC).  Strains were heterogeneous with respect to Vero cytotoxin (VT) production and hybridization with the EHEC plasmid-specific (CVD419) probe; 26 strains produced VT1; 1 produced VT2.  Twenty-four of 27 VT+ strains and 5 of 10 VT- strains hybridized with the CVD419 probe and produced enterohemolysin; these properties are characteristic of EHEC.  The strains did not hybridize with the EPEC adherence factor probe, a property characteristic of some EPEC.  Nevertheless, 36 strains adhered to HEp-2 cells in a localized manner and were positive by the fluorescence actin staining (FAS) test that is considered to correlate with the ability to cause attaching and effacing lesions in vivo.  EPEC and EHEC cause these lesions.  Although the FAS test appeared to be the most general pathogenicity test for the O26:H11 strains, it could not be used to assign strains specifically to EPEC or EHEC groups.
Miliary tuberculosis presenting as skin lesions in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  Acute miliary tuberculosis of the skin is an extremely rare infection that occurs in immunocompromised persons.  We report an intravenous drug abuser with human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom erythematous papules developed on the trunk and proximal aspect of the extremities.  Visceral lesions of unsuspected miliary tuberculosis were discovered at autopsy, and the cutaneous papules were found to contain Mycobacterium tuberculosis.  This is the first reported case of this cutaneous infection in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
Norfloxacin prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence in cirrhosis: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.  Eighty cirrhotic patients who had recovered from an episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were included in a multicenter, double-blind trial aimed at comparing long-term norfloxacin administration (400 mg/day; 40 patients) vs.  placebo (40 patients) in the prevention of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence.  At entry, both groups were similar with respect to clinical and laboratory data, ascitic fluid protein and polymorphonuclear concentrations, number of previous episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and causative organisms of the index spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.  Norfloxacin administration produced a selective intestinal decontamination (elimination of aerobic gram-negative bacilli from the fecal flora without significant changes in other microorganisms) throughout the study in six patients in whom the effect of norfloxacin on the fecal flora was periodically assessed.  Fourteen patients from the placebo group (35%) and five from the norfloxacin group (12%) developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence during follow-up (chi 2 = 5.97; p = 0.014) (mean follow-up period = 6.4 +/- 0.6 mo; range = 1 to 19 mo).  Ten of the 14 spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the placebo group and only one of the five spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the norfloxacin group were caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli (chi 2 = 8.87; p = 0.0029).  The overall probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence at 1 yr of follow-up was 20% in the norfloxacin group and 68% in the placebo group (p = 0.0063) and the probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli at 1 yr of follow-up was 3% and 60%, respectively (p = 0.0013).
Effects of epinephrine on hemodynamics and oxygen metabolism in dopamine-resistant septic shock.  The hemodynamic effects of epinephrine were prospectively studied in 13 patients with septic shock who remained hypotensive after both fluid loading and dopamine.  Hemodynamic measurements were performed before and one hour after the start of epinephrine infusion.  Systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure increased in all patients (p less than 0.01).  Cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance increased by 34 and 32 percent, respectively (p less than 0.05), but heart rate and pulmonary vascular resistance remained unchanged.  There was a concomitant increase in oxygen delivery (p less than 0.01) and oxygen consumption (p less than 0.05), the magnitude of the latter being related to baseline lactacidemia (p less than 0.01).  In view of the generally recognized physiologic goals of septic shock management, we conclude that epinephrine could be an appropriate alternative where fluid loading and dopamine have failed.
Causes, diagnosis, and treatment of pharyngitis.  Pharyngitis is a common disease of the respiratory tract that can be caused by several different viruses and bacterial organisms.  Clinically speaking, the most important causative agent is group A streptococcus (Streptococcus pyogenes).  Although rare, postpharyngitis complications arise as a result of disease caused almost exclusively by group A streptococcus.  Because group A streptococcal pharyngitis usually responds well to antimicrobial treatment, it is important to diagnose it.  Penicillin, erythromycin, and peroral first-generation cephalosporins have been documented to be effective.  In addition to group A streptococcus, C.  pneumoniae and M.  pneumoniae have also been detected in patients with pharyngitis.  The possibility of diagnosing these organisms is limited at the present.  Clinical surveys are still needed, moreover, to evaluate the effect of antimicrobial treatment on the disease caused by these organisms.  Although routine viral diagnostic methods do not help primary care physicians in treating patients with pharyngitis, information on bacteria and viruses in the immediate environment could prove to be of great help in daily clinical work.
Ofloxacin treatment of Chlamydia pneumoniae (strain TWAR) lower respiratory tract infections.  PURPOSE: Limited data suggest that tetracycline or erythromycin is the antibiotic of choice for treating Chlamydia pneumoniae infection, but they are not always effective or well tolerated.  Because the fluoroquinolone ofloxacin is effective for Chlamydia trachomatis infections, we investigated its role in treating C.  pneumoniae infections.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighty-seven patients were enrolled in a randomized trial of antibiotic therapy for acute lower respiratory tract infections.  The patients were randomly assigned to oral treatment with either ofloxacin (400 mg twice a day) or erythromycin (400 mg four times a day) for 10 days.  Frozen acute and convalescent serologic specimens were tested for TWAR antibody by microimmunofluorescence.  Susceptibility testing of C.  pneumoniae to ofloxacin was also performed.  RESULTS: Four patients who received ofloxacin were retrospectively identified as having C.  pneumoniae pneumonia (two) or bronchitis (two).  Within 2 weeks of starting ofloxacin therapy, all were cured or markedly improved.  The minimum inhibitory concentrations of ofloxacin for three previously isolated clinical strains of C.  pneumoniae were determined to be 1.0 to 2.0 micrograms/mL, well within the achievable serum levels (3 to 5 micrograms/mL) with ofloxacin therapy.  CONCLUSION: Ofloxacin may be an effective alternative antibiotic treatment for C.  pneumoniae respiratory infections.
Multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses.  The purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called Exserohilum rostratum.  Exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis, a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi.  This class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious, progressive pansinusitis.  To our knowledge, this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to E rostratum.  The diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens.  A craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles.  Aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described.
Pneumococcal endometritis and neonatal sepsis.  A recent case of postpartum maternal endometritis and neonatal sepsis due to Streptococcus pneumoniae prompted this report and a review of previous citations.  Although this rare presentation of pneumococcal infection is potentially fatal to both mother and child, early empiric antibiotic coverage for the most frequent etiologic agents of this syndrome, group B streptococci, was and is adequate for systemic pneumococcal infections.
Management of gastroenteritis.  Childhood gastroenteritis remains a common reason for admission to British paediatric units, although the severity of the disease appears to be diminishing in recent years.  We studied 215 infants and children with gastroenteritis admitted consecutively to four paediatric units in South Wales in order to determine the severity of the disease, the organisms isolated, the frequency of complications, and the adequacy of management before admission.  Stool pathogens were isolated in 125 (58%) patients (viruses in 65, bacteria in 30, and protozoa in 19, with multiple infection found in 11).  There was a low incidence of morbidity and complications, but prolonged diarrhoea (postenteritis syndrome) was present in 24 (11%) cases and 77 (36%) had received inappropriate treatment before admission.  Contemporary gastroenteritis is thus a relatively mild disease in the acute phase, but management before admission to hospital is often inadequate, and prolonged diarrhoea may be a feature in a considerable number of cases.
Brain stem tuberculoma in adult patients: diagnosis and treatment.  A consecutive series of six adult patients ranging in age from 29 to 53 years is presented.  The clinical and radiological features in each patient are described.  Attention is drawn to the features demonstrated on computed axial tomography.  In only one patient, the first encountered, was surgical excision undertaken and histological verification obtained.  One patient died before any form of treatment could be instituted.  The remaining four patients were treated with antituberculous chemotherapy alone and their progress monitored by sequential computed tomography.  The excellent response and good outcome in this conservatively treated group are documented.
Rhinosporidiosis associated with squamous cell carcinoma in the tongue.  The peritumoural region of a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue when examined with light and electron microscope showed nodular bodies in the submucosa with all the distinctive features of 'sporangium and 'spores' of rhinosporidiosis.  The occurrence of rhinosporidiosis in the tongue along with malignancy has not been reported hitherto.  Some interesting observations and causal relationships are discussed.
Fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk protect suckling mice from heat-stabile enterotoxin of Escherichia coli.  Human milk protects suckling mice from the diarrheagenic effects of heat-stabile enterotoxin of Escherichia coli (ST).  To identify the human milk fraction responsible for this protection, pooled skimmed, deproteinated milk was passed through charcoal, whereupon lactose was separated from the oligosaccharides.  The oligosaccharides contained ST-protective activity; the lactose did not.  The neutral, but not the acidic, fraction exhibited protective activity against ST (22% vs.  57% mortality, respectively; P less than .001).  The fucosylated, but not the nonfucosylated, subfractions of the neutral fraction contained the factor protective against ST (35% vs.  50% mortality, respectively; P less than .05).  An oligosaccharide isolation scheme based on different principles produced confirmatory results.  The commercially available neutral fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk did not significantly protect the mice from the effects of ST.  Thus, the protective factor against ST seems to be a minor neutral fucosyloligosaccharide of human milk.
Person-to-person transmission of Pseudomonas cepacia between patients with cystic fibrosis.  Ribotyping, a method of strain identification based on analysis of bacterial genomic restriction fragment length polymorphisms, was used to investigate the acquisition of Pseudomonas cepacia by a patient with cystic fibrosis.  Analysis of isolates recovered from the index patient and his contacts showed person-to-person transmission of this opportunist organism.  This documentation of the transmission of P cepacia from one cystic fibrosis patient to another suggests that measures to limit the acquisition of the pathogen by patients with cystic fibrosis may be worth while.
Impact of active immunisation against enteritis necroticans in Papua New Guinea.  Enteritis necroticans, known locally as pigbel, has been a major cause of illness and death among children in the highlands of Papua New Guinea.  After a successful trial of active immunisation against the beta toxin of the causative organism, Clostridium perfringens type C, immunisation of children was begun in 1980.  The effects of the immunisation programme on pigbel admissions in 3 of the 5 major highland hospitals were assessed.  In each of the centres studied the proportion of admissions due to enteritis necroticans dropped significantly after immunisation was introduced (p less than 0.001) and hospital admissions for pigbel in 1984-86, when immunisation was well established, were less than one fifth of previous figures.
European experience with itraconazole in systemic mycoses.  Since January 1985 more than 100 patients with deep fungal infections have been treated with itraconazole (200 to 400 mg/day) in Northern Italy.  Evaluation of the drug efficacy and tolerance was possible in one patient with sporotrichosis, in 34 with aspergillosis, and in 36 with cryptococcosis (mainly patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus).  Response to itraconazole alone was obtained in the case of sporotrichosis and in 24 of 34 patients with different forms of aspergillosis (of the 18 patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, 15 were cured).  Patients with cryptococcosis received itraconazole for active infection and/or for prevention of relapse.  Active infection was treated successfully with itraconazole alone in 9 of 12 patients and with itraconazole plus flucytosine in 8 of 10 patients.  Of the 31 patients who received itraconazole maintenance therapy for up to 27 months, 4 (13%) had relapses; 14 (45%) did not have relapses, and decline of serum antigen was detected in 12 of them; and 13 (42%) were completely cured (serum antigen titer dropped to zero).  With the exception of hypokalemia in one patient, itraconazole was well tolerated even in patients who received the drug for several months or years.
Disseminated histoplasmosis in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome: clinical findings, diagnosis and treatment, and review of the literature.  Histoplasmosis is a serious opportunistic infection in patients with AIDS, often representing the first manifestation of the syndrome.  Most infections occurring within the endemic region are caused by exogenous exposure, while those occurring in nonendemic areas may represent endogenous reactivation of latent foci of infection or exogenous exposure to microfoci located within those nonendemic regions.  However, prospective investigations are needed to prove the mode of acquisition.  The infection usually begins in the lungs even though the chest roentgenogram may be normal.  Clinical findings are nonspecific; most patients present with symptoms of fever and weight loss of at least 1 month's duration.  When untreated, many cases eventually develop severe clinical manifestations resembling septicemia.  Chest roentgenograms, when abnormal, show interstitial or reticulonodular infiltrates.  Many cases have been initially misdiagnosed as disseminated mycobacterial infection or Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.  Patients are often concurrently infected with other opportunistic pathogens, supporting the need for a careful search for co-infections.  Useful diagnostic tests include serologic tests for anti-H.  capsulatum antibodies and HPA, silver stains of tissue sections or body fluids, and cultures using fungal media from blood, bone marrow, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and other tissues or body fluids suspected to be infected on clinical grounds.  Treatment with amphotericin B is highly effective, reversing the clinical manifestations of infection in at least 80% of cases.  However, nearly all patients relapse within 1 year after completing courses of amphotericin B of 35 mg/kg or more, supporting the use of maintenance treatment to prevent recurrence.  Relapse rates are lower (9 to 19%) in patients receiving maintenance therapy with amphotericin B given at doses of about 50 mg weekly or biweekly than with ketoconazole (50-60%), but controlled trials comparing different maintenance regimens have not been conducted.  Until results of such trials become available, our current approach is to administer an induction phase of 15 mg/kg of amphotericin B given over 4 to 6 weeks, followed by maintenance therapy with 50 to 100 mg of amphotericin B given once or twice weekly, or biweekly.  If results of a prospective National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Disease study of itraconazole maintenance therapy document its effectiveness, alternatives to amphotericin B may be reasonable.
Absence of significant bacteremia during urinary catheter manipulation in patients with chronic indwelling catheters.  The objective of this study was to quantify the microorganisms present in blood at urinary catheter removal and at reinsertion in patients with chronic indwelling urinary catheters.  This was a prospective study during a 4-month period at a university-affiliated geriatric medical center.  Our subjects were 33 patients with chronic indwelling urinary catheters and positive urinary cultures; the urinary catheter was usually changed once a month.  A peripheral vein line was used for blood withdrawal and urinary cultures and quantitative blood cultures (Isolator) were performed during and shortly after urinary catheter removal and insertion.  All patients had significant bacteriuria (greater than 10(5) cfu/mL) with an average of 2.3 microorganisms.  Among the 46 sequential quantitative blood cultures performed, only two patients had bacteremia from the urinary source and at a very low concentration; one patient had 0.13 cfu/mL Str.  faecalis in blood 5 minutes after removal of the urinary catheter, and the other 0.1 cfu/mL Proteus mirabilis 5 minutes after reinsertion of a new urinary catheter.  None of the patients had any subjective or objective clinical problem during the 36 hours after the urinary manipulation.  Clinical symptoms and bacteremia are rare events, and prophylactic antibiotics do not appear necessary during urinary catheter removal and reinsertion in elderly institutionalized patients.  Further studies are necessary to identify risk factors in the rare instances of patients with bacteremia.
Adult and pediatric peritonitis rates in a home dialysis program: comparison of continuous ambulatory and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis.  We reviewed our 115-month experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD) in adult and pediatric patients to determine whether there is a difference in the incidence of peritonitis between patients performing CAPD or CCPD.  Peritonitis rates were similar in patients performing CAPD or CCPD in both the adult and pediatric age groups.  The overall CAPD peritonitis rate was significantly lower in adult patients when compared with pediatric patients.  There was no difference in peritonitis rates for CCPD between adult and pediatric patients.  When the data are divided into 3-year subgroups, the incidence of peritonitis is significantly lower in adult patients undergoing either CAPD or CCPD when compared with pediatric patients during the years 1986 to 1988.  There is significant improvement over time in the incidence of peritonitis in both adult and pediatric patients performing CCPD; similarly, there is a trend toward improvement in patients performing CAPD.  Staphylococcus species organisms remain the most common bacterial cause of peritonitis, except in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years or with nephrostomies, where gram-negative rod infections were more common.  Peritonitis resulted in discontinuation of peritoneal dialysis in a greater number of adult patients.  These results suggest that the number of catheter manipulations is not important in determining the incidence of peritonitis.  Pediatric patients are more likely than adult patients to develop peritonitis with either CAPD or CCPD.  Adult patients are more likely than pediatric patients to discontinue peritoneal dialysis secondary to peritonitis.
Central nervous system tuberculosis in children: a review of 30 cases.  The medical records of 30 children with central nervous system tuberculosis (CNS tuberculosis) who were treated between March, 1976, and February, 1989, were reviewed.  All had cranial computerized tomography scans at presentation.  The mean cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count was 200/mm3, protein 239 mg/dl, glucose 25 mg/dl and CSF/serum glucose ratio 21%.  Mantoux skin tests with 5 tuberculin units were greater than or equal to 10 mm induration in 50%, and chest radiographs were positive in 40% of patients.  Hydrocephalus was demonstrated by cranial computerized tomography in all 30 patients (100%).  Cranial computerized tomography scan demonstrating hydrocephalus is a sensitive radiographic nervous system tuberculosis and should be part of the early evaluation of children with suspected central nervous system tuberculosis.
HIV disease: a review for the family physician. Part II. Secondary infections, malignancy and experimental therapy.  The first part of this two-part article included recommendations for the initial evaluation of patients suspected of having HIV infection, the Centers for Disease Control's classification scheme for HIV disease and current recommendations for the use of zidovudine.  In this second part, secondary infections and malignancy are reviewed, and various experimental therapies are briefly discussed.
Pleuritis as a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis.  PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency with which tuberculous pleuritis is a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis and to compare the clinical manifestations of reactivation tuberculous pleuritis with "classic" tuberculous pleuritis, in which chest roentgenograms reveal no parenchymal infiltrates.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: We evaluated the medical records of 59 patients in whom tuberculous pleuritis was confirmed by histologic findings or mycobacterial culture.  Twenty-seven patients (46%) had typical chest roentgenographic findings of reactivation tuberculosis, whereas 32 (54%) had classic tuberculous pleuritis.  The clinical and laboratory features of these two groups were compared.  RESULTS: Symptoms were more prolonged and pleural fluid glucose and lactate dehydrogenase concentrations were more markedly abnormal in patients with reactivation pleuritis than in those with classic pleuritis, suggesting a more chronic inflammatory process in the former group.  Compared with patients with classic tuberculous pleuritis, those with reactivation pleuritis had a lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests (61% versus 88%) and granulomatous pleural inflammation (25% versus 72%), but a higher bacillary burden, manifest by a higher frequency of positive sputum smears for acid-fast bacilli (50% versus 0%) and positive mycobacterial cultures from sputum (60% versus 23%) and pleural fluid (91% versus 66%).  CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to previous reports, tuberculous pleuritis was a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis in 46% (27 of 59) of patients.  Tuberculous pleuritis is a more chronic process in patients with reactivation disease than in those with classic pleuritis.  The lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests and granuloma formation, combined with the higher bacillary burden in patients with reactivation pleuritis, suggest that these patients mount a less effective immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection than do patients with the classic form of tuberculous pleuritis.
Possible role of leukotrienes in gastritis associated with Campylobacter pylori.  This study was done to evaluate the role of leukotrienes (LTs) in gastritis associated with Campylobacter pylori.  Biopsy specimens of gastric mucosa were obtained endoscopically from 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia for bacteriological and histological examination and extraction of LTs.  There was correlation between the LTB4 level in the mucosa and the degree of gastritis evaluated histologically.  The level was higher when infiltration of neutrophils in the gastric mucosa was more extensive.  The LTB4 level in mucosa infected with C.  pylori was higher than that in noninfected mucosa.  These findings suggest that endogenous LTs may be related to the pathogenesis of gastritis associated with C.  pylori.
Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist reduces mortality from endotoxin shock.  About five out of 1,000 patients admitted to hospital develop bacterial sepsis leading to shock, the mortality rate for which is high despite antibiotic therapy.  The infection results in hypotension and poor tissue perfusion, and eventually leads to the failure of several organ systems.  Bacterial endotoxin is thought to be the direct cause of shock in Gram-negative sepsis, because it can cause shock in animals, and antibodies against endotoxin prevent Gram-negative shock in animals and in humans.  But, the symptoms of septic shock are the result of the actions of host cytokines induced by the endotoxin.  The cytokine interleukin-1 has been implicated as an important mediator of septic shock because it can induce tachycardia and hypotension and act synergistically with tumour necrosis factor to cause tissue damage and death.  We now report that a specific interleukin-1 receptor antagonist reduces the lethality of endotoxin-induced shock in rabbits, indicating that interleukin-1 does indeed play an important part in endotoxin shock.
The agent of bacillary angiomatosis. An approach to the identification of uncultured pathogens   BACKGROUND.  Bacillary angiomatosis is an infectious disease causing proliferation of small blood vessels in the skin and visceral organs of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromised hosts.  The agent is often visualized in tissue sections of lesions with Warthin-Starry staining, but the bacillus has not been successfully cultured or identified.  This bacillus may also cause cat scratch disease.  METHODS.  In attempting to identify this organism, we used the polymerase chain reaction.  We used oligonucleotide primers complementary to the 16S ribosomal RNA genes of eubacteria to amplify 16S ribosomal gene fragments directly from tissue samples of bacillary angiomatosis.  The DNA sequence of these fragments was determined and analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness to other known organisms.  Normal tissues were studied in parallel.  RESULTS.  Tissue from three unrelated patients with bacillary angiomatosis yielded a unique 16S gene sequence.  A sequence obtained from a fourth patient with bacillary angiomatosis differed from the sequence found in the other three patients at only 4 of 241 base positions.  No related 16S gene fragment was detected in the normal tissues.  These 16S sequences associated with bacillary angiomatosis belong to a previously uncharacterized microorganism, most closely related to Rochalimaea quintana.  CONCLUSIONS.  The cause of bacillary angiomatosis is a previously uncharacterized rickettsia-like organism, closely related to R.  quintana.  This method for the identification of an uncultured pathogen may be applicable to other infectious diseases of unknown cause.
Lung function in children following empyema.  Spirometry was performed and response to exercise was measured in 15 children following recovery from empyema to evaluate the impact of pleural infection on subsequent lung function.  Seven children underwent chest tube drainage; eight did not.  The two groups were similar in age (mean +/- SD, 6 +/- 5 years), sex distribution, bacterial pathogen-producing empyema, and age at follow-up evaluation (12 +/- 5 years).  Only one child reported recurrent respiratory symptoms.  No child had restrictive spirometric changes (total lung capacity, less than 80%; vital capacity, less than 80% predicted) but seven of 15 had a reduced forced expiratory volume in 1 second (less than 80% predicted) or forced expiratory flow during the middle half of the vital capacity (less than 75% predicted), suggesting mild airway obstruction.  No child demonstrated reduced exercise tolerance due to restrictive ventilatory limitations.  Mild obstructive abnormalities in lung function were identified with equal frequency in children treated with and without chest tube drainage.
Prevention of necrotizing enterocolitis in the rat with prenatal cortisone.  Cortisone acetate is known to accelerate maturation of the immature intestine.  The effect of prenatal administration of cortisone acetate on the morbidity and mortality of necrotizing enterocolitis was examined in a rat pup model.  Pregnant rats were administered cortisone acetate, 20 mg/100 g of body weight, or normal saline by daily IP injection from day 18-21 of gestation.  Rat pups were taken from the mothers before suckling was initiated, fed a simulated rat milk formula, and subjected to daily ischemic insults to produce an animal model of necrotizing enterocolitis.  Both morbidity and the mortality rates were significantly improved with prenatal cortisone treatment.  Maturation of the intestinal mucosal barrier was accelerated with the cortisone treatment as measured by decreased serum concentrations of a fed antigen, ovalbumin.  Aerobic bacterial colonization of the small intestine and translocation of bacteria to the liver were decreased in the pups pretreated with steroids.  These changes observed in a rat model of necrotizing enterocolitis may explain the decreased incidence of necrotizing enterocolitis in human infants born to mothers who received corticosteroids late in gestation.
Diagnosis and treatment of prostatic infections.  The diagnosis and management of prostatitis and pelviperineal pain is a challenge to the clinician.  Careful examination of the prostatic fluid and bacteriologic cultures to differentiate bacterial from nonbacterial prostatitis are essential.  Antimicrobial therapy is effective in the majority of men with acute or chronic bacterial prostatitis.  Nonbacterial prostatitis is the most common type of prostatitis.  The etiology is unknown and treatment with repeated antimicrobial therapy is ineffective.  Alpha-blocking agents may relieve symptomatology.  Pelviperineal pain may be of prostatic origin but other nonprostatic causes should be sought.
A general model of sexually transmitted disease epidemiology and its implications for control.  Achieving control of STDs may be possible by integrating the activities discussed previously with further research to provide additional empiric data on sex behavior, to develop innovative strategies to access and communicate with those most at risk of STD (i.e., core-group members), and to foster biologic study of STD pathogens with the goal of vaccine development.  New strategies to identify core-group members aside from the currently used STD-repeater status would be of immense help in targeting educational efforts, laboratory screening, and vaccines.  Achieving more complete control of STDs may be possible if recent advances in our understanding of their epidemiology and transmission dynamics can be translated into effective new interventional strategies.
Left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis: an unusual presentation of histoplasmosis.  A case of histoplasmosis seen as left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in a 49-year-old man is described.  The patient had roentgenographic findings of a solitary, noncalcified left upper lobe mass and mediastinal adenopathy.  Tissue diagnosis of histoplasmosis was obtained using a thoracotomy, allowing institution of appropriate treatment.
Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis: clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection.  Pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.  Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for HIV infection.  Patients with HIV infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent P.  carinii pneumonia.  Signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved.  Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques.  Therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat P.  carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients.  An association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of P.  carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed.  Other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis.  Further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis.
Cardiac involvement in AIDS.  Cardiac involvement in AIDS may occur at any stage of HIV disease and may manifest as congestive cardiomyopathy, potentially lethal arrhythmia, or pericardial effusion and tamponade.  The heart may be affected by nearly all of the opportunistic infections and many of the malignancies associated with the syndrome.  Although often clinically unobtrusive, cardiac lesions may be important in the pathogenesis of significant clinical symptoms and play an often unrecognized role in the prognosis and natural history of AIDS.
Castanospermine vs. its 6-O-butanoyl analog: a comparison of toxicity and antiviral activity in vitro and in vivo.  Inhibitors of glycoprotein processing, such as castanospermine (1,6,7,8-tetrahydroxyoctahydroindolizine), have been shown previously to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) with acceptable toxicity in cultured human cells.  In prior experiments, we have tested the toxicity and antiviral efficacy of castanospermine in mice infected with the Rauscher murine leukemia virus (RLV).  When compared with 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT, zidovudine), castanospermine was less effective and more toxic.  Since the 6-O-butanoyl analog of castanospermine was previously found to have a more favorable activity profile than the parent compound against HIV-1 in cultured cells, we compared the antiviral efficacy of both compounds in parallel in vitro and in vivo in the RLV system.  Plaque formation in the XC assay was inhibited with a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 2.4 microM for the 6-O-butanoyl analog of castanospermine, as compared to 9 microM for castanospermine.  For both compounds, concentrations resulting in significant cytotoxicity were about ten times higher.  Both compounds significantly decreased HIV-1 env-induced syncytium formation in a novel in vitro assay.  In RLV-exposed mice, the 6-O-butanoyl analog showed no advantage over the parent compound: both curves for toxicity as well as antiviral efficacy were super-imposable.  We conclude that the 6-O-butanoyl analog of castanospermine as well as castanospermine itself are active antiviral agents in mice and that prolonged oral administration is tolerable.  However, in comparison to AZT, their antiviral activity profiles are less favorable.
Ocular atopy and mycotic keratitis.  In a retrospective analysis, we studied the association between ocular atopy and keratomycosis.  Forty-one (26.3%) of 156 patients with fungal corneal ulcers were found to have preexisting allergic conjunctivitis.  All patients had been using a combination of antibiotics and corticosteroids before developing the corneal ulcer.  Fungus isolation on Sabouraud's agar medium was obtained in 74.8% (31/42) ulcers.  The most common fungi isolated were Fusarium (32.3%) and Aspergillus (29%).  One percent silver sulfadiazine was used as an antifungal agent in these patients.  Overall efficacy of this drug was found to be 77.8%, with Fusarium being the most sensitive (87.5%).
Quinolone antibiotics in the treatment of Salmonella infections   The 4-fluoroquinolones are a new class of antimicrobial agents that possess broad in vitro antibacterial activity, including efficacy against enteric pathogens such as Salmonella, Shigella, Campylobacter, Yersinia, and Vibrio species.  These drugs are clinically effective against both drug-sensitive and multiresistant strains of Salmonella typhi and Salmonella paratyphi that cause enteric fever.  In salmonella enterocolitis, the quinolones--unlike older antimicrobial agents that may have little impact on the duration of symptomatic illness and can in fact prolong fecal carriage of salmonellae--actually shorten the course of clinical disease and terminate excretion of these organisms in the stool.  Similarly, for chronic carriers of both typhoidal and nontyphoidal Salmonella strains, the quinolones are effective in eradicating biliary and fecal reservoirs of infection.  Immunosuppressed persons with salmonellosis, such as those with AIDS, may benefit from both short-term treatment and prolonged prophylaxis with a quinolone antibiotic.  The optimal agent, dose, and duration of quinolone therapy for all salmonella syndromes remain to be determined by larger controlled trials.
Treatment of tinea cruris with topical terbinafine.  Twenty-three patients were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind trial of terbinafine 1% cream versus its vehicle (placebo) in the treatment of tinea cruris.  One patient had a negative initial culture and was excluded, and two patients were dropouts, one because of poor study compliance (terbinafine) and one because of an adverse event (placebo).  Twenty patients were examined for efficacy of treatment (9 terbinafine-treated, 11 placebo-treated).  Both groups were similar in age, sex, duration of disease, prior therapy, size and location of lesion, infecting organism, and predisposing factors.  Terbinafine 1% cream was more effective than vehicle cream in the reduction of the signs and symptoms of tinea cruris.  In addition, there was a higher conversion rate to negative culture and normal microscopy findings in the terbinafine-treated group.  Clinical results combined with evaluation of mycologic tests at end of therapy showed terbinafine to be a rapid and significantly more effective treatment for tinea cruris than placebo (78% vs 18% cure rate, respectively).  Follow-up cure rates confirmed these findings (89% and 18%, respectively).  No significant adverse events occurred during terbinafine treatment.
Health assessment of the early adolescent. Challenges and clinical issues.  Although early adolescence spans only 4 years, it is a critical time in the life of a young person in forming opinions and selecting options.  Specific attention to the growing and changing needs of this population is imperative if their health status is to improve.
Day care characteristics associated with Haemophilus influenzae disease. Haemophilus influenzae Study Group.  To identify characteristics of day care facilities associated with H.  influenzae disease, we compared 92 licensed facilities in which a case of H.  influenzae disease had occurred with randomly selected facilities at which no cases occurred.  Matched univariate analysis showed that personnel at facilities where H.  influenzae disease occurred were more likely than those at control facilities to use towels or handkerchiefs to wipe children's noses, admit children who were not toilet trained or had diarrhea ("liberal fecal policy"), had a narrower age range, were more likely than control facilities to be for-profit and less likely to use volunteers.  In a multivariate model that adjusted for age range, profit status and liberal fecal policy, towel or handkerchief use (OR 5.5, 95% CI: 1.1, 30) was the only variable independently associated with case facilities.  This is the first association of a specific day care practice with H.  influenzae disease.
The inactivation of antithrombin III by serum elastase in patients with surgical infections.  The relationship between serum elastase and antithrombin III was determined in septic surgical patients as a possible mechanism for intravascular thrombosis and hypercoagulability during sepsis.  Eighteen patients with surgical infections and elevated white blood cell counts had their blood assayed daily for white blood cell count, serum elastase, and antithrombin III, until the patient's white blood cell count returned to normal.  Antithrombin III was significantly lower (0.87%) when elastase was above the normal range (greater than 14.2 micrograms/ml).  Elastase was significantly higher (30.6 micrograms/ml), when antithrombin III was less than normal.  These data indicate that elevated serum elastase is associated with a significant reduction in circulating antithrombin III.  Stimuli that increase serum elastase, i.e.  surgery, trauma, or sepsis may promote intravascular thrombosis by the inhibition of antithrombin III at the blood-endothelial cell interface.
Determinants of condom use among French heterosexuals with multiple partners.  In September 1988, a sample of French individuals between 18 and 49 years of age, who reported more than one sexual partner in the past six months and who considered themselves heterosexuals (n = 1088), were interviewed at home about risk perception of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) transmission, sexual behavior, and condom use.  Systematic or occasional use of condoms during the previous 12 months was reported by 46.9 percent of respondents.  Among condom users, 38.7 percent declared they had never used condoms before the last 12 months, fear of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) rather than contraception being the main motivation of these recent users.  Multivariate analysis indicates that voluntary testing for HIV, average or more than average fear of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and knowledge of HIV carrier in personal relations are associated with condom use.
Subpleural mononuclear cell infiltration. Significance in the differential diagnosis of pleuritis showing nonspecific histologic findings.  To determine if patients who had lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion and a pleural biopsy without any specific findings could be histopathologically differentiated between those with tuberculous and nontuberculous pleuritis, we histologically re-evaluated the pleural biopsies of all patients whose pleural effusion was predominant with lymphocytes and contained no malignant cells.  A total of 40 patients with a nonspecific histologic findings of pleural biopsy specimen were categorized based on their ultimate diagnosis as having tuberculous (n = 15), carcinomatous (n = 10) or nontuberculous, benign pleuritis (n = 15).  The pleural biopsy specimen of patients with nontuberculous, benign pleuritis frequently showed a band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate (10 out of 15 patients), while the same finding was infrequent in those with tuberculous pleuritis (0 out of 15, p = 0.0001) and pleuritis associated with carcinoma (three out of 10, p = 0.082).  Based on these results, the presence of band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate in pleural biopsy specimens of patients with lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion suggests that the pleuritis is nontuberculous in its nature.
Platelet-activating factor or a platelet-activating factor antagonist decreases tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the plasma of mice treated with endotoxin.  When L-platelet-activating factor (PAF) or alprazolam (a PAF antagonist) was administered to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated mice, the level of plasma tumor necrosis factor (TNF alpha) determined by either ELISA or a cytotoxic assay using WEHI cells was significantly lowered.  The inactive stereoisomer, D-PAF, was not effective in lowering plasma TNF alpha levels in LPS-treated mice.  The decrease in plasma TNF alpha induced by L-PAF or alprazolam was partly reversed by indomethacin.  Despite a decrease in plasma TNF alpha, L-PAF or alprazolam caused an increase in the amount of TNF alpha mRNA present in the kidneys and the livers of LPS-treated mice, suggesting that a posttranscriptional event leading to the synthesis or release of TNF alpha was inhibited by these agents.
The prevalence of cardiac valvular pathosis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.  The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of valvular pathosis in a population of patients with SLE, to assess the candidacy of such patients for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental treatment.  The hospital records of 112 patients with SLE were reviewed and screened for endocarditis, heart murmurs, and other valvular pathosis.  Two of the 112 patients had confirmed cases of bacterial endocarditis.  This prevalence is comparable to endocarditis prevalence rates in patients with prosthetic valves and is also three times that in patients with rheumatic heart disease.  The high prevalence of endocarditis in this population of patients with SLE suggests that according to present perspectives on patient management, patients with SLE should be considered for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental therapies associated with formation of a bacteremia.
Association of Helicobacter pylori infection with dyspeptic symptoms in patients undergoing gastroduodenoscopy.  PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia and ulcer disease as well as in a control population undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) for suspected pancreatic or biliary disease.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-six eligible patients undergoing upper endoscopy at Massachusetts General Hospital were studied over a period of 18 months, as well as 24 patients undergoing ERCP for presumed pancreatic or biliary disease.  Two biopsy specimens from the fundus and two from the antrum were taken for microbiologic and histopathologic analysis.  Sera were examined by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay.  All specimens were processed in a blind fashion.  Chi-square test with Yates' correction was used for statistical analysis.  RESULTS: H.  pylori was found in 31 of 46 (67%) study patients and in six of 24 (25%) control patients (by microbiologic or histologic techniques) (p less than 0.01).  H.  pylori was found in all patients with peptic ulcer disease and in 60% of patients without ulcers.  No association between H.  pylori and any specific gastrointestinal symptom was observed.  H.  pylori was identified in the fundus as often as in the antrum, although in the antrum the organism was more often associated with histologic gastritis.  Compared with histology, serologic assays for IgG and IgA antibodies to H.  pylori had sensitivities of 100% and 94%, and specificities of 86% and 76%, respectively.  Reexamination of selected specimens without knowledge of their identity revealed that the specificity of serology exceeded 94% while the sensitivity of histologic and microbiologic studies may have been closer to 80%.  CONCLUSIONS: H.  pylori was more common in dyspeptic patients than in our control subjects undergoing ERCP.  Multiple biopsy sites from fundus and antrum are required to exclude infection.  Serologies of IgG and IgA were sensitive and specific for H.  pylori, suggesting a possible role for non-endoscopic diagnosis of this infection.  The frequent association of H.  pylori with active inflammation rather than with quiescent gastritis is consistent with a pathologic role of this organism.
Gastrointestinal tuberculosis. Report of four cases.  Gastrointestinal tuberculosis is a rare disease in the United States.  Correct identification is often delayed because it is not considered early on in the differential diagnosis.  Four patients with gastrointestinal tuberculosis and the symptoms, diagnosis, complications, and treatment of the disease are discussed.  Gastrointestinal tuberculosis should be considered in Asian immigrant patients who present with symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease.
Hypercalcitoninemia, hypocalcemia, and toxic shock syndrome.  Toxic shock syndrome is a multisystem illness frequently complicated by hypocalcemia.  The etiology of the hypocalcemia, which may be severe, is not well understood.  We report two cases of fatal toxic shock syndrome accompanied by severe hypocalcemia; each patient also had an inappropriately elevated serum calcitonin level, which in one case was as high as 179,000 pg/mL.  Hypercalcitoninemia may be a cause of the low serum calcium levels as well as of certain clinical manifestations of toxic shock syndrome.
The modified Schollner costoplasty.  The modified Schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis.  We present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis.  We found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications.  Objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case.  All but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit.
Tetanus immunization status and immunologic response to a booster in an emergency department geriatric population.  STUDY OBJECTIVES: Although effective procedures for the prevention of tetanus have long been available, serosurveys done since 1977 demonstrate that 49% to 66% of the elderly population lacks a protective antitoxin level (more than 0.01 IU/mL).  This study was undertaken to assess the tetanus immunization status of patients presenting to an emergency department and to evaluate their immunologic response to a tetanus booster.  SETTING: The study was conducted in a tertiary care ED.  TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: The patients enrolled were 65 or more years old and had breaks in their skin barriers.  DESIGN: At each patient's initial presentation, pertinent demographic data and tetanus immunization history were recorded.  The patient was then followed for 21 days.  INTERVENTIONS: Each patient's antitoxin titer was determined on a serum sample by ELISA, and, if required by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices criteria, a booster was administered at the first visit.  MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Serum antitoxin assays were repeated on days 7, 14, and 21 after the initial visit until seroconversion (titer more than 0.01 IU/mL).  Forty-four patients (55%) had protective levels at initial presentation, and in 36 (45%) the levels were not protective.  Age and sex were not predictive of protection.  Past military service and a definite history of three or more previous immunizations were good predictors of protection.  Of 34 patients who were followed serially for inadequate initial titers, only 19 (56%) seroconverted by day 14.  Patients who did not seroconvert were more likely to be older (P less than .05).  CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that a significant number of elderly patients lacked an initial protective level of tetanus antitoxin.  Of these, 44% failed to seroconvert within 14 days and carried a potential risk of developing tetanus.
Protection of mice against the Lyme disease agent by immunizing with recombinant OspA.  Lyme borreliosis is a tick-borne illness caused by Borrelia burgdorferi.  The gene for outer surface protein A (OspA) from B.  burgdorferi strain N40 was cloned into an expression vector and expressed in Escherichia coli.  C3H/HeJ mice actively immunized with live transformed E.  coli or purified recombinant OspA protein produced antibodies to OspA and were protected from challenge with several strains of B.  burgdorferi.  Recombinant OspA is a candidate for a vaccine for Lyme borreliosis.
Partial characterization of Chlamydia trachomatis isolates resistant to multiple antibiotics.  In vitro susceptibility testing was done on urogenital isolates of Chlamydia trachomatis from five patients, four of whom were suspected treatment failures.  At least one isolate from each patient was resistant to tetracycline at concentrations greater than or equal to micrograms/ml, although less than 1% of a population of organisms showed high-level resistance.  Fully resistant populations selected by passage through 8 micrograms/ml tetracycline either died or lost their resistance on further passage in antibiotic-free medium.  Relatively large inocula were required to demonstrate resistance, and morphology of inclusions was altered at high tetracycline concentrations.  The observed resistance may be a new characteristic of the organism or merely newly recognized.  Isolates resistant to tetracycline were resistant to doxycycline, erythromycin, sulfamethoxazole, and clindamycin but sensitive to rifampin, ciprofloxacin, and ofloxacin.  Thus, resistance to tetracycline, erythromycin, and clindamycin occurs in C.  trachomatis and may be a factor in some treatment failures.
Serum pepsinogen I and gastrin concentrations in children positive for Helicobacter pylori.  Serum pepsinogen I, serum gastrin concentration, and inflammatory scores were measured in a population of 71 children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for investigation of upper abdominal pain.  Forty four were initially colonised with Helicobacter pylori.  The indices were measured before treatment (in 71 children), one month (in 41 children), and six months (in 21 children) after stopping treatment.  Before treatment there was a significant correlation between serum pepsinogen concentration, total inflammatory score, and H pylori state, but no correlation between serum gastrin concentrations and H pylori state.  Similarly, the total inflammatory score and serum pepsinogen concentrations were significantly correlated.  There was no such correlation in children negative for H pylori.  After treatment the inflammatory score improved in those patients in whom H pylori had been eradicated.  There was also a significant fall in serum pepsinogen I and serum gastrin concentration in those patients in whom H pylori had been eradicated.  These results were similar to those found six months after treatment had been stopped.  These findings suggest that the serum pepsinogen I concentration could be considered a useful marker for gastritis and can be used as an index of severity of gastritis in H pylori positive subjects.  The measurement of serum gastrin concentrations does not give useful information.
History of antifungals.  Until two to three decades ago, only a few drugs were available for the treatment of fungal infections.  The status of antifungal therapy changed dramatically in the late 1960s with the introduction of newer broader spectrum agents, such as the iodinated trichlorophenols and the imidazoles, that acted by disruption of the fungal cell membrane.  Some of the more recently developed broad-spectrum antifungal drugs include the triazoles terconazole, itraconazole, and fluconazole and the dimethylmorpholine amorolfine.  The allylamines represent one of the newest classes of compounds shown to be effective in the management of fungal disorders.  The two members of this unique chemical class that have been studied clinically, naftifine and terbinafine, are effective against a wide spectrum of fungal organisms.  Terbinafine has the added advantage of both topical and oral activity.
Treatment of fungal skin infections: state of the art.  The number of cases of mycotic infections are increasing, presenting physicians today with an unprecedented challenge in handling the treatment and prophylactic control of these disorders.  The increase in mycotic disorders is due to many factors, such as longer life span, organ transplantation, and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  The pharmaceutical industry is providing physicians with newer, more potent drugs to manage mycoses.  An overview of current practice in the use of topical and oral agents, especially ketoconazole, are given in the following specific mycoses: tinea capitis, pityriasis versicolor, seborrheic dermatitis, Trichophyton rubrum infections, vaginal candidiasis, and moist intertriginous tineas.  The efficacy of ketoconazole in various vehicles and dosage schedules and of traditional agents such as griseofulvin are discussed with relation to each of the mycoses.
Bacterial meningitis in the United States, 1986: report of a multistate surveillance study. The Bacterial Meningitis Study Group.  A prospective, laboratory-based surveillance project obtained accurate data on meningitis in a population of 34 million people during 1986.  Haemophilus influenzae was the most common cause of bacterial meningitis (45%), followed by Streptococcus pneumoniae (18%), and Neisseria meningitidis (14%).  Rates of H.  influenzae meningitis varied significantly by region, from 1.9/100,000 in New Jersey to 4.0/100,000 in Washington state.  The overall case fatality rates for meningitis were lower than those reported in several studies from the early 1970s, suggesting that improvements in early detection and antibiotic treatment may have occurred since that time.  Concurrent surveillance was also performed for all invasive disease due to the five most common causes of bacterial meningitis.  Serotypes of group B streptococcus other than type III caused more than half of neonatal group B streptococcal disease and mortality, suggesting that an optimal vaccine preparation must be multivalent.  Of the organisms evaluated, group B streptococcus was the second most common cause of invasive disease in persons greater than 5 years old.
Pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis   Pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients; 18 (60%) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 (33%) had multiple pulmonary symptoms.  In 14 patients (47%), abnormalities were found on examination of the chest.  In 16 chest roentgenograms (53%), there was at least 1 abnormality: right-sided pleural effusion (9 patients) and elevated right hemidiaphragm (8 patients) were the most common.  All patients were treated with metronidazole (Flagyl) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease.  Pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess.  The clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis.  Pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess.
Dependence of oxygen consumption on oxygen delivery in children with hyperdynamic septic shock and low oxygen extraction.  We studied the effect of increasing systemic oxygen delivery (DO2) by packed RBC (PRBC) transfusion on oxygen consumption (VO2) in children with hyperdynamic septic shock.  After routine resuscitation with volume loading and pharmacologic support, patients were studied if they had significant derangements of oxygen transport variables defined as: baseline VO2 less than 180 ml/min.m2 and oxygen extraction (O2 extr) less than 24%.  Eight studies were performed.  PRBC transfusion increased DO2 from 636 +/- 167 to 828 +/- 266 ml/min.m2 (p less than .01) without increasing cardiac index (5.2 +/- 1.3 vs.  5.0 +/- 1.4 L/min.m2).  VO2 increased from 112 +/- 36 to 157 +/- 60 ml/min.m2 (p less than .01) while O2 extr was unchanged (18 +/- 3% vs.  19 +/- 6%).  Despite initial low O2 extr, VO2 can be increased in pediatric septic shock by a further increase in DO2.  Since VO2 correlates with survival, one should consider enhancing DO2 further despite initial low O2 extr and high DO2.  Effects on morbidity and mortality require further study.
Yersinia enterocolitica tenosynovitis. The first case.  We describe a case of tenosynovitis of tibialis posterior due to Yersinia enterocolitica occurring after injury by a plant thorn in a 55-year-old man.  The illness was chronic with 2 recurrences in spite of antibiotic treatment.  Full recovery was obtained only after surgical intervention.  Our patient's chronic course was fostered by the persistence of thorn fragments in the infected area and the exceptionally pathogenic character of the isolated colony of Yersinia.
Antibiotic pharmacokinetics in surgery   Pharmacokinetics is the study of variables that affect drug concentrations at the effector site.  The descriptive terms peak concentration, elimination half-life, volume of distribution, and bioavailability are commonly used to express pharmacokinetic variability among drugs used in patient care.  The pharmacokinetic characteristics of drugs are important for surgeons to understand because they represent differences that may assume clinical significance when selecting antibiotics for preoperative preventive indications.  In addition, the changing hemodynamic pattern of the stressed and septic patient may result in changing pharmacokinetic patterns for an antibiotic, which, in turn, may require changes in the dosing regimen during the course of treatment.
Selection of antibiotic coverage in vascular patients undergoing cystoscopy.  Bacteremic seeding of prosthetic vascular grafts represents a cause for graft infection; transurethral procedures account for one source of bacteremia.  Therefore, a prospective study of 200 patients undergoing cystoscopy was conducted to identify the incidence of bacteruria and factors associated with it, organisms involved and their antibiotic sensitivities.  Positive cultures were found in 21%.  The incidence was 64% in in-patients and 8% in out-patients.  Positive cultures were found in 12% of patients who received antibiotics and 29% who did not.  Four percent showed signs of bacteremia.  The cultures identified both Gram positive and negative organisms; multiple organisms grew in 22%.  Gram negative organisms were more common in in-patients.  Candida grew in 8%.  The Gram positive organisms were sensitive to ampicillin (92%), sulfatrimethoprim (75%) and cefazolin (60%); Gram negative to aminoglycosides (100%) and cefazolin (92%).  In view of the unpredictable and multiple organisms, it is recommended that pre-cystoscopy cultures be performed and specific antibiotic coverage be based on the sensitivities.
The "nuisance" sexually transmitted diseases: molluscum contagiosum, scabies, and crab lice.  Although molluscum contagiosum, scabies, and infestation by crab lice do not carry the requirements of partner notification or other long-term consequences, they are among the most commonly reported sexually transmitted disease.  Molluscum contagiosum is a benign viral infection of the skin epidermal layer, most often transmitted by intimate skin-to-skin contact.  The lesions often resolve spontaneously over time, but patient discomfort or social reasons may require destructive removal of the lesions.  Scabies is caused by the Sarcoptes scabiei mite.  The victims continually itch, especially at night, and often seek over-the-counter topical remedies before seeing a clinician.  Once a correct diagnosis is made, successful resolution of this disease and its itching can be achieved.  Head and pubic lice account for most of the more than three million cases of louse infestation treated in the United States each year.  Symptoms of infestation generally include itching that leads to scratching, erythema, irritation, and inflammation.  A careful diagnosis followed by disinfection, symptomatic treatment, and psychologic support should result in a complete cure with no long-term effects.
An unusual cause of thoracic mass.  A previously well 10 year old boy presented with scoliosis, a mass in the chest wall, and a pleural effusion.  Chest radiography showed the triad of chronic consolidation, pleural effusion, and rib periostitis.  Investigations confirmed thoracic actinomycosis.  Tissue spread was evaluated by computed tomography.  It was successfully treated with benzylpenicillin, which was later replaced by clindamycin.
Ocular syphilis.  The ability of syphilis to mimic different ocular disorders can lead to misdiagnosis and delay in appropriate antimicrobial therapy.  The authors describe their experience over the past 5 years with the ocular manifestations of syphilis in 25 patients who comprised 2.45% of 1020 new patients.  Uveitis was the most common ocular manifestation seen.  All patients had positive results from FTA-ABS tests, whereas only 68% had reactive serum VDRLs.  Two of five patients tested for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibody were reactive.  The authors recommend routine FTA-ABS and VDRL screening in patients with uveitis or unexplained ocular inflammation.  They also recommend testing for HIV antibody in luetics and aggressive treatment with high-dose aqueous penicillin for syphilis.
Quality of well-being before and after antibiotic treatment of pulmonary exacerbation in patients with cystic fibrosis.  General quality of life has only recently been measured with an objective tool in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), and there have been no reported attempts to document changes in patients' overall well-being over time, as patients deteriorate or respond to intervention.  We applied the Quality of Well-Being scale (QWB) in 28 patients with CF before and after a two-week course of oral ciprofloxacin used to treat pulmonary exacerbations.  There were significant correlations between changes in QWB and various pulmonary function test results; QWB vs FEV1: r = 0.4, p less than 0.03; QWB vs FVC: r = 0.5, p less than 0.01; and QWB vs SaO2: r = 0.4, p less than 0.05.  Thus, the QWB can track changes in general well-being in CF patients over a brief time and detect changes associated with pulmonary exacerbation and its treatment.
The hyperimmunoglobulinaemia E and recurrent infections syndrome in an adult [published erratum appears in Thorax 1990 Dec;45(12):984]   A 27 year old white woman with a history of chronic eczema and episodes of serious infection of the chest, skin, and bone presented with acute respiratory failure.  She was found to have a spontaneous right pneumothorax and a pneumatocele in the left upper lobe.  Despite a left upper lobectomy she was left with chronic respiratory failure, bullous lung disease, and bilateral bronchiectasis.  The hyperimmunoglobulinaemia E and recurrent infections syndrome was diagnosed only in adult life.
Parents' vs physicians' utilities (values) for clinical outcomes in potentially bacteremic children.  Our previous analyses of decision strategies in children 3-24 months with acute-onset fever greater than or equal to 39 degrees C and no evident bacterial focus of infection indicated that the risks of routine blood cultures (the unnecessary hospitalization and treatment of children who clear their bacteremia spontaneously) outweigh its benefits (the prevention of a few cases with major infectious sequelae).  Because those analyses were based on parents' values for beneficial and adverse clinical outcomes, we wished to examine whether those values differed in physicians and, if so, whether the differences were sufficient to change the results of the decision analysis.  Using a pre-tested linear analog utility (value) scale, we evaluated eight potential clinical outcomes in potentially bacteremic children by surveying 121 parents of healthy 3-24-month-old children attending a private pediatric group practice and 57 attending physicians of a tertiary-care children's hospital emergency room.  Utilities were based on a 0-1 normalization, where 0 is the utility of the worst outcome (meningitis or other major bacterial infection, plus venipuncture), and 1 the utility of the best outcome (complete recovery without venipuncture or hospitalization), and were analyzed using a recently developed statistical model of utility.  The majority of parents and physicians combined the imputed components of the outcomes (disease, pain of venipuncture, and stress of hospitalization) in a nonlinear fashion.  Parents assigned substantially lower utility (i.e.  greater disutility) to venipuncture, minor infection, and hospitalization than did physicians, and these utilities were even lower in parents with other children at home.
A randomized prospective study of topical antimicrobial agents on skin grafts after thermal injury.  We prospectively studied 52 consecutive patients who were treated by early tangential excision and grafting following thermal injury.  The usefulness of two topical antimicrobial agents--0.5% silver nitrate (Ag) and neomycin (1 gm/liter) plus bacitracin (50,000 units/liter) (NB)--was compared with the effectiveness of Ringer's lactate (RL) for prevention of autogenous skin-graft loss due to infection.  Graft loss of 10 percent or more occurred in 17 patients (33 percent)--due to infection in 16.  Skin-graft loss was a minor problem in patients with less than 20 percent total body surface area (TBSA) burn (Ag: 0 of 6, NB: 1 of 6, RL: 1 of 5).  The use of either antimicrobial (Ag or NB) resulted in less graft loss (1 of 14) than RL (4 of 6; p less than 0.05) in the 20 to 40 percent TBSA burn group.  Large burns (greater than 40 percent) had a very high incidence of at least 10 percent graft loss (67 percent) regardless of treatment.  Infection in the area of graft loss was caused by antibiotic-resistant organisms or yeast in 50 percent of the Ringer's lactate group and the entire neomycin plus bacitracin group.  No graft infections were caused by resistant organisms or yeast in the silver nitrate group.  This study demonstrates that topical antimicrobial agents reduce infection-related skin-graft loss in patients with medium-sized (20 to 40 percent TBSA) burns and that neomycin plus bacitracin is associated with rapid emergence of drug-resistant organisms whereas silver nitrate is not.
Treatment of postoperative infection of ascending aorta and transverse aortic arch, including use of viable omentum and muscle flaps.  Postoperative infection of the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 40 patients was treated by antibiotic therapy alone (4 patients) or by operation and lifelong suppressive antibiotic therapy (36 patients).  Complications of infection included antibiotic-resistant infection, infected false aneurysm, rupture of suture line, aortocutaneous fistulas, aortic-right ventricular fistulas, arterial embolus, aortic valve insufficiency, aortobronchial fistula, mediastinal abscess, and chest wall problems.  These were treated by a variety of operations including composite valve-graft replacement, graft replacement, patch-graft closure of false aneurysm, simple suture of disrupted suture lines and false aneurysm, and debridement of mediastinum and chest wall.  The area of reconstruction was covered, and mediastinal dead space was reduced by mobilization of viable tissue, including local tissue and distant structures such as flaps of muscle and omentum.  Thirty-three patients (83%) were early survivors, and 28 patients (70%) were alive and well at last follow-up 4 months to 6.5 years after operation.
Chancroid: results from an outbreak in Houston, Texas.  A recent (and continuing) epidemic of chancroid in Houston has included morphologic variation in the disease, including so-called dwarf, classic, giant, transient, follicular, phagedenic, and pseudogranuloma inguinale types.  Most cases were clearly acquired by unprotected sexual encounters with local prostitutes.  The strain of Haemophilus ducreyi responsible for this outbreak was relatively easily cultured on routine media; unexpected sensitivity of this strain to vancomycin rendered the recommended "selective" growth medium much less optimal for isolation.  Therapeutic success uniformly followed the use of intramuscular ceftriaxone sodium; one case responded to oral ciprofloxacin hydrochloride.
Pulmonary disease following intravesical BCG treatment.  Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) is an attenuated strain of Mycobacterium bovis that has been used in the treatment of malignant disease for over 20 years and for the treatment of bladder cancer since 1976.  Major complications of this treatment are infrequent.  We report two cases of systemic illness with pulmonary manifestations after treatment with intravesical BCG.
Adult immunizations: are they worth the trouble?  There are good data to recommend routine use of vaccines against measles, rubella, tetanus, influenza, and pneumococcal infections in adults.  An adolescent or an adult born after 1956 is considered to be susceptible to measles unless he or she has received two doses of live measles vaccine or has suffered a physician-diagnosed case of measles.  Tetanus is largely a disease of the elderly, and there is a universal need for immunizations with tetanus toxoid.  Influenza continues to be a major public health problem, and influenza vaccine should be given annually to the elderly and to those at high risk.  The efficacy of pneumococcal vaccine in American adults is still being debated.  Results from case-control studies show that the vaccine is about 60% effective in reducing the incidence of disease due to vaccine-related strains.  Its use in the elderly and in those at higher risk for pneumococcal infection is recommended.
Nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute, multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  We report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated Mycobacterium avium infection, in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks.  Multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques.  The epidemiology, possible pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnostic imaging, and therapy are reviewed.  Early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with "cryptic" myalgia is recommended.
Antibiotic therapy for Bacillus species infections.  We reviewed 36 cases of culture-proven Bacillus species ocular infections occurring between September 1974 and December 1989.  Kirby-Bauer disk sensitivities were available in 34 of the 36 cases (95%).  All Bacillus species isolates were sensitive to the aminoglycoside antibiotics (N = 34) and to vancomycin hydrochloride (N = 32); resistance to clindamycin was found in four of 18 (22%) of tested isolates.  Although B.  cereus was uniformly sensitive to these antibiotics, resistance to clindamycin occurred in four cases in the non-B.  cereus group.  The microbroth dilution technique confirmed the Kirby-Bauer data.  The aminoglycosides were uniformly effective, but the cephalosporins (first, second, and third generation drugs) were consistently ineffective against B.  cereus and varied from sensitive to moderately sensitive for the non-B.  cereus isolates.  Our microbiologic laboratory findings suggest that vancomycin hydrochloride in combination with an aminoglycoside ensures more consistent antibiotic coverage of Bacillus species ocular infections.
Disseminated histoplasmosis with embolic endovascular complications: a case report.  A 57-year-old man had subacute embolic ischemia of his right foot and subsequent acute embolic ischemia of his left foot after angiography.  Thrombus removed at the time of the left femoral thromboembolectomy grew Histoplasma capsulatum confirming the diagnosis of disseminated histoplasmosis.  Surgical revascularization of the right leg and parenteral amphotericin B was followed by chronic ketoconazole therapy for 16 months.  The patient has remained asymptomatic at 30 months after operation.  Effective treatment of endovascular infection with ischemic complications of Histoplasmosis requires surgical revascularization and intensive chemotherapeutic intervention.  Histoplasmosis is a ubiquitous infection in endemic areas that often has an asymptomatic subclinical course.  Involvement of the cardiovascular system is rarely reported.  Previous case reports have described infected cardiac valves and aortic aneurysms.  This report describes the uncommon presentation of disseminated Histoplasma capsulatum infection as a peripheral embolic event and the successful management with revascularization combined with systemic amphotericin B followed by ketoconazole therapy.
Treatment of infection after total knee arthroplasty by debridement with retention of the components.  Thirty-one total knee arthroplasties were followed by infection in twenty-seven patients who were subsequently treated with debridement, retention of the components, and intravenous administration of antibiotics.  The results were reviewed retrospectively in an effort to evaluate the function of the prostheses that had been salvaged successfully and to identify the causes of failure of those around which an infection had recurred.  At the most recent follow-up (average duration, 8.8 years), infection had recurred around twenty-four (77 per cent) of the thirty-one arthroplasties.  Seven knees (23 per cent) remained free of infection.  Function remained satisfactory, although revision was subsequently needed in two knees for reasons other than infection.  One cause of failure was the duration of the infection before debridement.  This averaged twenty-one days for the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty had been salvaged and thirty-six days for the twenty-four knees in which treatment had failed.  Another cause of failure was the type of organism: Staphylococcus aureus had caused the infection in fourteen (58 per cent) of the twenty-four knees in which the treatment failed but in only two of the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty was salvaged.  In addition, eight infections in the first group were resistant to penicillin, whereas both infections in the second group were sensitive to penicillin.  The four infections with gram-negative organisms in the series were all in knees in which the treatment failed.  All six hinged prostheses that were used failed.
Disseminated, nonmeningeal gastrointestinal cryptococcal infection in an HIV-negative patient.  Gastrointestinal cryptococcosis is extremely rare, especially in patients with no involvement of the central nervous system.  We describe a 63-yr-old man undergoing prednisone therapy for chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis who presented with peritonitis, colitis, and skin lesions.  Pathological studies revealed necrosis and numerous cryptococcal organisms in the colon, omentum, and skin, and cultures yielded Cryptococcus neoformans.  The patient died of multisystem organ failure following emergency exploratory surgery performed when he had onset of symptoms of a bowel perforation after an endoscopic biopsy.  Clinicians should be aware that gastrointestinal cryptococcosis can occur in the absence of infection of the central nervous system or lungs, and that it may affect relatively healthy patients who are immunocompromised because of splenectomy, chronic liver disease, or steroid therapy.
Postpartum osteomyelitis caused by group B streptococcus.  Postpartum infections caused by group B streptococci are generally limited in scope.  We report a case of vaginal colonization with group B streptococcus that progressed in the postpartum period to osteomyelitis that necessitated total hip replacement.  The patient had no risk factors predisposing to streptococcal osteomyelitis.  An altered immune status in pregnancy and intrapartum bacteremia may be involved in the pathogenesis of this infection.
Toxic shock syndrome after inguinal hernia repair. Report of a case with patient survival.  A 40-year-old man developed fulminant multisystem failure several days after elective repair of an inguinal hernia.  Toxic shock syndrome (TSS) was diagnosed.  There was, however, no evidence of wound infection at the time of multisystem failure.  Only later in his hospital course did the wound drain.  Staphylococcus aureus was cultured from the wound and was the presumed etiologic agent in the patient's life-threatening illness.  The patient recovered fully with supportive care, antibiotics, and surgical debridement of the inguinal hernia site.  This case is discussed in the context of existing literature on the toxic shock syndrome.  The site of infection is typically nonsuppurative, but the systemic manifestations are typically life threatening.  The responsible organism is commonly believed to be a strain of S.  aureus that expresses a toxin (TSS toxin-1) that effects multisystem failure, but which also diminishes the local inflammatory response and explains the benign appearance of the wound.  Although this is a rare clinical entity, elective surgical procedures complicated by fatal TSS have been reported.  Surgeons should understand this disease and the management necessary to avert mortality.
Postneonatal mortality in Norway: a study of recent trends and comparison with other mortality rates in Norwegian children.  Postneonatal mortality in Norway decreased rapidly from 1956 to 1980 but subsequently remained stable.  In recent years the postneonatal death rate appears to be increasing, primarily due to greater numbers of deaths attributed to the Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.  During the same period, mortality among older children has also decreased, with the decline evident in all leading causes.  Only among people aged 15 to 19 years have recent trends been less than encouraging, with the number of fatal traffic accidents in particular remaining stable or increasing.  Although there is room for continued improvement, the widely held belief that the health status of Norwegian children is good is supported by the trends in mortality.
Streptococcal endocarditis temporally related to transesophageal echocardiography.  A case of streptococcal sanguis endocarditis temporally related to a transesophageal echocardiogram is reported; and the literature on the incidence of bacteremia occurring during transesophageal echocardiography is reviewed.  On the basis of this case and review of the literature, a reevaluation of the current guidelines for endocarditis prophylaxis during this procedure is recommended.
Desensitization in the management of vancomycin hypersensitivity.  Vancomycin is the preferred antimicrobial agent in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal infections.  One of the well-known hypersensitivity reactions to this agent is the "red-man syndrome," which is believed to involve drug-induced histamine release in certain individuals.  Although rate and/or dose reductions may be effective in some cases, some hypersensitivity reactions necessitate the discontinuation of vancomycin.  In this article one patient is described who developed vancomycin-associated reactions consistent with the red-man syndrome despite having tolerated vancomycin administration previously.  This case was managed by sequential increments in vancomycin administration over several days that allowed for therapeutic doses of the drug to be administered.  Prior to desensitization, vancomycin administration at a lowered rate and dose was unsuccessfully attempted, despite the presence of combination antihistamine therapy.  A loss of skin prick test reactivity to vancomycin was demonstrated after successful desensitization.  This desensitization method may be useful in managing certain refractory cases of vancomycin hypersensitivity.
Unusual case of pacemaker lead migration.  Pulmonary artery migration of pacemaker lead is rare and may result in pulmonary emboli originating from the thrombus around the infected catheter and causing multiple pulmonary infarcts.  We report an unusual case of pacemaker lead migration to the right pulmonary artery with septic pulmonary embolism.  While being treated with intravenous Cefuroxamine, the patient had spontaneous migration of the lead to the left pulmonary artery with subsequent left pulmonary embolism.
Intraocular pressure changes and postural changes of intraocular pressure in experimentally induced Hansen's disease of rhesus, mangabey, and African green monkeys.  In our long term evaluation of patients with Hansen's disease we have frequently found reduction of their intraocular pressure.  Furthermore, we noted changes in their intraocular pressure on change of posture.  To determine if these changes have any significance we measured the intraocular pressures of 24 experimentally infected and 39 control monkeys in both sitting and reclining positions.  We found significant reduction of intraocular pressure in 66.7% compared with controls in the sitting position, and a significant increase in intraocular pressure in 79% when checked first in the sitting then in the reclining position.  We offer a possible pathophysiological explanation as to why the changes occur.
Effect of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection on the course of syphilis and on the response to treatment.  PURPOSE: To evaluate evidence that concurrent infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) alters both the natural history of syphilis (by increasing the frequency of early neurosyphilis) and the response to penicillin.  DATA IDENTIFICATION: Review of major works on syphilis in the English language and files maintained since 1971, supplemented by a systematic search using Index Medicus and MEDLARS.  DATA EXTRACTION: The works mentioned above were critically reviewed for information on early neurosyphilis and, where relevant, HIV infection.  RESULTS OF DATA ANALYSIS: The central nervous system is regularly involved in early syphilis.  Standard recommended doses of benzathine penicillin provide cerebrospinal fluid levels that are probably at the borderline of efficacy, and cure relies on treatment and an adequate host immune response.  Early neurosyphilis, appearing within 2 years of onset of infection with Treponema pallidum, was uncommon in the prepenicillin era and usually occurred after inadequate therapy.  This complication was exceedingly rare in the first three decades of penicillin use.  In contrast, in the past decade, 40 patients with HIV infection have been reported to have asymptomatic neurosyphilis, or syphilitic meningitis, cranial nerve abnormalities (predominantly in cranial nerves II and VIII), or cerebrovascular accidents, singly or together.  In 40% of cases, HIV infection was first diagnosed when neurologic symptoms appeared.  Of the 38 patients for whom information was available, 18 had the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), 7 had AIDS-related complex, and 13 had antibody to HIV.  Sixteen had previously been treated for syphilis, of whom 5 (31%) had received benzathine penicillin within the previous 6 months.  Preliminary data also suggest that skin lesions and VDRL (Venereal Disease Research Laboratory) antibody in HIV-infected patients with secondary syphilis respond more slowly to conventional penicillin therapy.  CONCLUSION: Intensive therapy and follow-up observation is indicated for early syphilis in HIV-infected subjects.  Novel approaches to treatment deserve systematic evaluation.
Beta-lactamase production and susceptibilities to amoxicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, ticarcillin, ticarcillin-clavulanate, cefoxitin, imipenem, and metronidazole of 320 non-Bacteroides fragilis Bacteroides isolates and 129 fusobacteria from 28 U.S. centers.  beta-Lactamase production (nitrocefin disk method) and agar dilution susceptibility of amoxicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, ticarcillin, ticarcillin-clavulanate, cefoxitin, imipenem, and metronidazole were determined for 320 Bacteroides species (not Bacteroides fragilis group) and 129 fusobacteria from 28 U.S.  centers.  Overall, 64.7% of Bacteroides species and 41.1% of fusobacteria were beta-lactamase positive.  Among the Bacteroides species, positivity rates were highest for B.  bivius (85.0%), followed by B.  splanchnicus (83.3%), B.  eggerthii (77.8%), and B.  oralis (77.1%); 54.5% of black-pigmented Bacteroides species were beta-lactamase positive.  Among the fusobacteria, Fusobacterium mortiferum showed the highest rate of beta-lactamase positivity (76.9%).  MICs of amoxicillin (128 micrograms/ml) and ticarcillin (64 micrograms/ml) for 90% of all beta-lactamase-positive strains were reduced to 4 and 2 micrograms/ml, respectively, with the addition of clavulanate.  MICs of amoxicillin and ticarcillin for 90% of all beta-lactamase-negative strains were 1 and 4 micrograms/ml, respectively, and greater than or equal to 98.4% of the strains were susceptible to the beta-lactams tested.  Of the beta-lactamase-producing strains, 45.9% were susceptible to amoxicillin at less than or equal to 4 micrograms/ml and 93.4% were susceptible to ticarcillin at less than or equal to 64 micrograms/ml; the addition of clavulanate raised the rates to 90.4 and 100%, respectively.  All strains were susceptible to cefoxitin, imipenem, and metronidazole.  The activity of amoxicillin against 29 beta-lactamase-producing strains (10 Bacteroides species and 19 fusobacteria) was not enhanced by the addition of clavulanate; however, 82.7% of these strains were susceptible to amoxicillin, and all were susceptible to ticarcillin.
Sexually transmitted diseases of the colon, rectum, and anus. The challenge of the nineties.  During the past two decades, an explosive growth in both the prevalence and types of sexually transmitted diseases has occurred.  Up to 55 percent of homosexual men with anorectal complaints have gonorrhea; 80 percent of the patients with syphilis are homosexuals.  Chlamydia is found in 15 percent of asymptomatic homosexual men, and up to one third of homosexuals have active anorectal herpes simplex virus.  In addition, a host of parasites, bacterial, viral, and protozoan are all rampant in the homosexual population.  Furthermore, the global epidemic of AIDS has produced a plethora of colorectal manifestations.  Acute cytomegalovirus ileocolitis is the most common indication for emergency abdominal surgery in the homosexual AIDS population.  Along with cryptosporidia and isospora, the patient may present to the colorectal surgeon with bloody diarrhea and weight loss before the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease.  Other patients may present with colorectal Kaposi's sarcoma or anorectal lymphoma, and consequently will be found to have seropositivity for HIV.  However, in addition to these protean manifestations, one third of patients with AIDS consult the colorectal surgeon with either condylomata acuminata, anorectal sepsis, or proctitis before the diagnosis of HIV disease.  Although aggressive anorectal surgery is associated with reasonable surgical results in some asymptomatic HIV positive patients, the same procedures in AIDS (symptomatic HIV positive) patients will often be met with disastrous results.  It is incumbent upon the surgeon, therefore, to recognize the manifestations of HIV disease and diagnose these conditions accordingly.
Septic Streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis.  We describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to Streptococcus milleri.  In both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology.  Surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case.  Longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery.  Despite confused nomenclature Streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity.
An external urine collection device for incontinent women. Evaluation of long-term use.  Urinary incontinence is common in aged women, may precipitate nursing home admission, and may prompt use of a urine collection device, usually an indwelling urethral catheter.  The safety and efficacy of a new external urine collection device for women that is affixed to the perineum by an adhesive developed for ostomy bags was evaluated.  Applied to 26 aged women, 78% of 2,264 devices were leak-free for 24 hours and 49% for 48 hours.  The incidence of new bacteriuria was less than half that found in our earlier studies of long-term urethral catheters in the same institution.  Perineal erythema was infrequent and preexisting decubitus ulcers improved or did not change.  Four patients were withdrawn, one each because of periurethral itching, diminished urine output, recurrent wetness, and fracture of the proximal femur associated with severe osteoporosis.  This device may offer an alternative to urethral catheters for management of urinary incontinence but should not be used on women with urine retention and should be used with care on women with severe osteoporosis.  Controlled trials must determine effects upon bacteriologic complications and health-care costs.
Transmission of Chlamydia pneumoniae in young children in a Japanese family.  Chlamydia pneumoniae strain TWAR was isolated from the respiratory tract of a 5-year-old girl suffering from pneumonia.  The IgM and IgG antibody titers to TWAR were 1:32 and 1:128, respectively.  Cultures and serology for other common bacterial and viral respiratory pathogens were negative.  Although she was treated with 35 mg/kg/day rokitamycin, TWAR was repeatedly isolated after treatment.  Her 3-year-old sister developed acute bronchitis, and TWAR was isolated from her nasopharynx.  She was treated with 43 mg/kg/day erythromycin with prompt improvement, and TWAR was not isolated after treatment.  Although her mother, grandmother, and 8-month-old sister suffered from respiratory illness during these periods, TWAR was not isolated from them.  The repeated isolations from the index patient suggest that infection was transmitted from sister to sister.  This case represents the first reported isolation of TWAR from young children in the same household and the first from Japan.
Dexamethasone effects on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who are dependent on artificial ventilation.  A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia.  A total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone (n = 12) or saline placebo (n = 11).  Dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg per day) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone (8 mg/kg per day) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy.  Infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 (P less than .05) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group (respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants, P less than .05; P = .12 after Yates correction).  The use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation (4 vs 22 days, P less than .05) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy, hospitalization, home oxygen therapy, occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity, rate of growth, and mortality.  No significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy.  Measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract (23.7 ng/mL in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/mL in the control group, P less than .05).  Dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
Cerebrospinal fluid changes after 48 hours of effective therapy for Hemophilus influenzae type B meningitis.  Interval cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis is often performed to assess efficacy of treatment for bacterial meningitis.  The authors reviewed 101 cases of pediatric bacterial meningitis resulting from Hemophilus influenzae type b in which analysis of CSF occurred on admission and between 48 and 72 hours after initiation of parenteral antibiotic therapy; of these, only one patient had a positive repeat CSF culture.  Of the 100 cases with sterile CSF on repeat culture, there was no instance of recrudescence of infection during hospitalization.  The following characterized the interval changes in CSF profile of this group: 100 (100%) with persistence of pleocytosis; 14 (14%) with differential cell count conversion from polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocyte (PMN) predominance to relative lymphocytosis; 96 of 98 (98%) with initial positive Gram-stained smear with negative results for organisms; 53 of 75 (71%) with normalization of initial hypoglycorrhachia; and 10 of 94 (11%) with normalization of initial abnormally elevated protein levels.  The differences in mean values of CSF total white blood cell counts, percentage PMNs, and glucose and protein concentrations on presentation and between 48-72 hours of therapy were highly significant (P less than 0.0001).  After 48 hours of effective antibiotic therapy for H.  influenzae type b meningitis, CSF pleocytosis and abnormally elevated protein concentration are usually preserved, whereas hypoglycorrhachia usually resolves; it is not uncommon for the differential cell count to convert from a PMN predominance to a relative lymphocytosis.  Significant alteration in all CSF parameters associated with H.  influenzae type b meningitis can occur after 48 hours of effective parenteral antibiotic therapy.
Coccidioidomycosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients.  Coccidioidomycosis is at best a complicated fungal infection; often it is life-threatening.  Coccidioidomycosis is confined epidemiologically to the southwestern region of the USA, and most cases have occurred in that area, particularly in Arizona.  However, we have seen several cases in San Francisco in patients with only a history of travel to endemic areas.  In part because of its regional distribution, information about the clinical presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of patients with coccidioidomycosis has lagged behind information about other, more commonly encountered AIDS-associated opportunistic infections.  Drs.  Galgiani and Ampel have probably had the largest single experience with coccidioidomycosis in individuals infected with the human immunodeficiency virus.  These specialists share their experience and make recommendations as to how these complicated conditions should be approached.
Outpatient percutaneous central venous access in cancer patients.  A 1-year experience of percutaneous subclavian catheterization in outpatients with cancer was reviewed to document reliability, safety, and cost.  There were 763 catheter insertions attempted with prospective documentation of complications in 664 consecutive patients.  Catheter insertion was successful in 722 attempts (95%).  There were only 13 pneumothoraces (2%).  Thirty catheters required repositioning (4%).  The average catheter duration was 191 days (range: 0 to 892 days).  Fifty-six catheters (8%) were removed because of suspected infection.  Documented catheter sepsis occurred in 21 patients (3%); catheter site infection occurred in 8 patients (1%).  Thus, only 0.22 infections per catheter year occurred during this 382 catheter-year experience.  The estimated cost of catheter insertion was $562, which is one-third the estimated cost for tunneled catheters ($1,403) and for reservoir devices ($1,738).  In our experience, percutaneous subclavian catheterization is a reliable, cost-effective method compared with tunneled or reservoir devices, with an equivalent incidence of catheter-related infections.  The cornerstone of our success with this program is a staff dedicated to catheter care and intensive patient education.  In centers where a large number of patients require central venous access, percutaneous catheterization should be the technique of choice.
Surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly: a case control study.  Surgical wound infection occurs in fewer than 5% of operations.  Nevertheless, it represents the second most common type of hospital-acquired infection and results in increased morbidity and mortality.  As with all nosocomial infections, the rate of surgical wound infection increases with age.  Patients over 65 years of age run an approximately 15% risk of surgical wound infection.  Two-thirds of patients with invasive cancer other than non-melanotic skin cancer are aged 65 years and over.  Over half of them are treated surgically for their cancer.  Cancer and other chronic diseases have been cited as possible causes of the increased risk of nosocomial infection among the elderly.  Using the Foothills Hospital Wound Study Data Base as the sampling frame, we conducted a case-control study of surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly.  Cancer was found not to be a risk factor for surgical wound infection.  The results are discussed in relation to the role of immunity in both disorders.
Infective dermatitis of Jamaican children: a marker for HTLV-I infection   In Jamaican children infective dermatitis is a chronic eczema associated with refractory nonvirulent Staphylococcus aureus or beta-haemolytic streptococcus infection of the skin and nasal vestibule.  14 children between the ages of 2 and 17 years with typical infective dermatitis, attending the dermatology clinic at the University Hospital of the West Indies in Jamaica, were tested for antibody to human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1).  All were seropositive, whereas 11 children of similar age with atopic eczema were all negative.  In 2 of 2 cases of infective dermatitis, the biological mother was HTLV-1 seropositive.  None of the 14 patients showed signs of adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma, though experience with previous cases of infective dermatitis indicates the possibility of such progression.
The use of prophylactic furazolidone to control a nosocomial epidemic of multiply resistant Salmonella typhimurium in pediatric wards.  The nosocomial spread of enteric pathogens is often difficult to control in overcrowded pediatric wards.  During 1983 and 1984, despite cohorting of patients and enforced hand washing, more than 200 cases of nosocomial multiply resistant Salmonella typhimurium phage type R-9 were observed on two adjacent pediatric wards.  Most cases occurred during the summer months.  After 19 new cases were detected early in the summer of 1985, oral administration of furazolidone throughout their entire hospital stay (2.5 mg/kg twice daily) was recommended for all subsequently hospitalized infants.  Among the 114 (65%) infants who were appropriately treated, only one additional case (1%) was detected.  In contrast 11 (19%) cases occurred among the 59 infants who were inappropriately treated: 5 of 35 (14%) of those who were not treated and 6 of 24 (25%) in whom treatment with furazolidone was delayed greater than 24 hours (P less than 0.001 between the appropriately and inappropriately treated groups).  In pediatric wards where infection control measures cannot be optimally applied, prophylactic furazolidone administration may be helpful in preventing the spread of enteric pathogens.
Seroprevalence of Helicobacter pylori in Seventh-Day Adventists and other groups in Maryland. Lack of association with diet.  To evaluate the possible role of diet in the transmission of Helicobacter pylori, we compared H pylori seroprevalence among Seventh-Day Adventists (who are vegetarian and abstain from alcohol, caffeine, and meat; n = 94) and two non-Seventh-Day Adventist control groups (n = 168).  With the use of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay H pylori antigen prepared in a French pressure cell, we found no difference in seroprevalence among these groups; however, seropositivity strongly correlated with age and black race.
Congenital insensitivity to pain with neuroparalytic keratitis.  Congenital insensitivity to pain is a well-defined entity in the group of sensory deficiency syndromes.  To the best of our knowledge, unilateral neuroparalytic keratitis associated with congenital insensitivity to pain has not been reported.  We report such a case to alert clinicians to this potentially blinding problem.
Treatment of vaginal candidiasis: orally or vaginally?  Vaginal candidiasis continues to be the most common cause of vaginal discharge.  A large variety of topical drugs and a selection of orally active antifungals are currently available.  The choice between the use of oral drugs or intravaginal agents will depend on the therapeutic results obtained with the different agents, side effects, pregnancy status, and patient preference.  The results obtained in the Maria Hospital, Tilburg, The Netherlands, and a review of foreign data suggest the following: (1) For acute infection oral and topical agents produce equivalent results.  (2) For chronic infections oral medication is preferred.  (3) Oral therapy should not be given to pregnant patients or to patients not using reliable contraceptive measures.  (4) Half the patients prefer oral medication; only 5% prefer intravaginal therapy, and the others had no clear preference.
Metabolic regulation of renal gluconeogenesis in response to sepsis in the rat.  1.  The regulation of renal gluconeogenesis was studied in rats made septic by a caecal ligation and puncture technique.  2.  Blood glucose concentrations were not markedly different in septic rats, but lactate, pyruvate and alanine concentrations were markedly increased, compared with sham-operated rats.  Conversely, blood ketone body concentrations were significantly decreased in septic rats.  Both plasma insulin and glucagon concentrations were markedly elevated in response to sepsis.  3.  The maximal activities of glucose-6-phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.9), fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (EC 3.1.3.11), pyruvate carboxylase (EC 6.4.1.1) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (EC 4.1.1.49) were markedly decreased in kidneys obtained from septic rats, suggesting diminished renal gluconeogenesis.  4.  Renal concentrations of lactate, pyruvate and other gluconeogenetic intermediates were markedly elevated in septic rats, whereas those of acetyl-CoA and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate were decreased and unchanged, respectively.  5.  The rate of gluconeogenesis from added lactate, pyruvate and glycerol was decreased in isolated incubated renal tubules from septic rats.  6.  Sepsis decreased the arteriovenous concentration difference for glucose, lactate, and alanine.  Septic rats showed decreased net rates of glucose production and net rates of removal of lactate and alanine as compared with sham-operated controls.  7.  It is concluded that the diminished capacity for renal gluconeogenesis in septic rats could be the result of changes in the maximal activities or regulation of key non-equilibrium gluconeogenic enzymes or both, but the effect of other factors (e.g.  toxins) has not been excluded.
Lyme borreliosis in the severe combined immunodeficiency (scid) mouse manifests predominantly in the joints, heart, and liver.  The authors describe the histopathologic evolution of Lyme disease in severe combined immunodeficiency (scid) and normal C.B-17 and C57BL/6 mice inoculated with Borrelia burgdorferi.  Starting on day 7 after inoculation, all scid mice infected subcutaneously in the tail with a low-passage European tick isolate of B.  burgdorferi had clinical evidence of arthritis characterized by reddening and swelling of tibiotarsal joints.  Later on, other joints, ie, metatarsal and ulnacarpal joints were also affected.  The infection of scid mice resulted in a persistent spirochetemia and the development of a multisystem disease with chronic progressive inflammation of joints, heart, and liver.  Major histopathologic alterations included 1) severe joint lesions, characterized by the presence of hyperplastic inflamed synovial lining cells associated with the erosion and destruction of cartilage and/or bone; 2) pancarditis with infiltrations of mononuclear cells in the endocardium, myocardium, and pericardium; and 3) hepatitis with mononuclear cell infiltrations confined to the portal field and central vein, granulomatous reactions, and eventually the development of liver fibrosis.  In addition, smaller more confined lesions were found in kidneys, lung, brain, and striated muscle.  The inflammatory infiltrates in the various organs were associated mostly with Mac-1+ cells, largely monocytes and macrophages, as well as some polymorphonuclear leukocytes, but not B and T lymphocytes.  Infective spirochetes could be readily isolated from blood and joints and were found at the site of inoculum and the myocardium.  In contrast, subcutaneous inoculation of normal C.B-17 or C57BL/6 mice with spirochetes in general did not result in clinical signs of arthritis.  Only 10% to 20% of the C57BL/6 mice, but none of the C.B-17 mice, showed clinical evidence of oligoarthritis, which appeared not before day 36 after inoculation.  In general, the infection of normal mice resulted in minimal lesions in various organs, and no spirochetes could be visualized or reisolated from their tissues.  The data demonstrate that Lyme borreliosis may develop in mice in the absence of detectable specific B and T cells and thus suggest an immunologic control of the disease in this species.  The scid mouse model therefore can be used to define the components of the immune system responsible for the suppression and/or the progression of the disease.
Prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infection with a silver oxide-coated urinary catheter: clinical and microbiologic correlates.  In a prospective clinical trial involving 482 acutely hospitalized patients, the overall incidence of catheter-associated urinary tract infection (UTI; 10%) was similar in recipients of a silver oxide-coated urinary catheter (silver catheter) or a control silicone catheter.  However, female sex and absence of antimicrobial use were independently associated with an increased risk of UTI.  After stratification for these variables, the silver catheter reduced the incidence of UTI among women not receiving antimicrobial agents (19% for control catheter vs.  0 for silver catheter, P = .04; confidence interval for the difference in incidence, 0.4%-38%) but not in the other subgroups.  Gram-positive UTI was associated with absence of antimicrobial use, the control catheter, and catheter care violations.  Gram-negative and candidal UTIs were more common after 7 days of catheterization, and candidal UTI was associated with being female and antimicrobial use.  These findings demonstrate that several clinical variables influenced the incidence and microbiology of catheter-associated UTI and that the silver catheter appeared to prevent UTI among women not receiving antimicrobials.
Syphilis, human immunodeficiency virus infection, and targeting prevention.  To examine the interaction between syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-1) infection in Oklahoma, we conducted an unlinked HIV seroprevalence survey using serum specimens submitted to the Oklahoma State Department of Health for serologic test for syphilis.  Of specimens with positive results from fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test (FTA-ABS), 6.3% were HIV-1 seropositive compared to 0.8% of those that had negative results from FTA-ABS.  Among specimens positive for syphilis, HIV-1 seropositivity was found almost exclusively among those from persons 20 to 39 years of age and more often among those from men than those from women (9.9% vs 1.3%).  Of syphilis-positive specimens from 20- to 39-year-old men, 17.6% were HIV-1 seropositive.  In Oklahoma, an area with a relatively low overall prevalence of HIV-1 infection, targeting prevention efforts to young adults who test positive for syphilis should be an efficient way to reach some persons at high risk for HIV-1 infection.
Myocardial preservation using lidocaine blood cardioplegia.  Prevention of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping using lidocaine hydrochloride as an additive to cold potassium blood cardioplegia was studied prospectively in 46 patients undergoing elective myocardial revascularization.  Patients were similar with respect to age, ventricular function, severity of coronary artery disease, cross-clamp time, completeness of revascularization, frequency of internal thoracic artery grafting, systemic temperature at the time of cross-clamp removal, and mean infusate volume and temperature.  Patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia (group 1, 23 patients) had a significant reduction in the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (22% versus 74%; p less than 0.0005) and in the mean number of cardioversion attempts required to defibrillate the heart (0.5 +/- 1.3 versus 1.9 +/- 0.97; p less than 0.0005) after cross-clamp removal compared with controls (group 2, 23 patients).  There were no differences between the two groups postoperatively with regard to cardiac enzyme release, hemodynamic measurements, or clinical outcome.  Patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia tended to have a lower incidence of new postoperative atrial fibrillation (9% versus 26%).  Ventricular function was preserved equally in both groups.  We conclude that lidocaine is a safe additive to potassium blood cardioplegia and significantly reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping.
Acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis: a review of treatment approaches.  Some authors describe acute bacterial prostatitis as a self-limiting disease, and as with any other acute septic condition, parenteral broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is indicated.  Chronic bacterial prostatitis, however, is associated with a causative organism persisting unaltered in prostatic fluid and leading to relapsing urinary tract infections.  In the 1970s, several workers produced a classification system and bacteriologic localization cultures for establishing the diagnosis of prostatitis.  Krieger and Crawford point to an important factor that is omitted in many clinical trials with episodes of chronic bacterial prostatitis in men.  If localization studies of the prostate infection are attempted in the presence of bacteriuria, the urine must be sterilized with nitrofurantoin or penicillin G.  Urine cultures obtained from first-voided urine, bladder urine, and urine voided after prostatic massage should show no growth, and the expressed prostatic secretion can then be examined for evidence of prostatic infection.  This procedure reduces the contamination of the expressed prostatic secretion by the organism from the urinary tract infection.  This is important, because antibiotic treatment is determined by the sensitivity of the organism isolated from the prostate as well as by the ability of the antibiotics to penetrate the prostate.  Meares outlines the pharmacokinetic features needed for drug diffusion into prostatic fluid and provides detailed information on the physical characteristics of the prostate during acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis.  Unfortunately, the choice of an ideal drug cannot be extrapolated from this information because pharmacodynamic principles cannot predict clinical efficacy.  Some authors find that sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim has the best cure rate in the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis.
Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis: fungal folliculitis?  Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis is a rare condition with no known cause.  However, a fungal cause is suggested by (1) tinea-like annular lesions, (2) initial clinical consideration of fungal folliculitis in many reported cases, (3) an association with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, and (4) an association with scaly and vesiculopustular lesions of palms and soles.  We report a case histologically identical to eosinophilic pustular folliculitis but in which hyphal fungal organisms were demonstrated in one of the involved hair follicles.
Concomitant neurocysticercosis and brucellosis.  A young Mexican woman had headache and left arm weakness develop shortly after immigrating to the United States.  A solitary cerebral cysticercus was found at surgery, but, instead of the expected finding of clear fluid, the cyst contained pus from which Brucella melitensis was cultured.  Although the patient had no signs or symptoms suggestive of brucellosis, agglutination studies revealed IgM and IgG antibodies consistent with active brucellosis.  Clinicians should be alert to the possibility of multiple infections in immigrants from countries where parasites and bacteria that are uncommon in the United States are endemic.
High infectious morbidity in pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes: an understated complication.  Patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are prone to infection, possibly related to poor metabolic control.  Relative immune deficiency exists in pregnancy.  We hypothesized that pregnant patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are at an increased risk for infection and that infection is related to poor glycemic control.  We matched 65 pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes to 65 nondiabetic pregnant controls.  At least one episode of infection before delivery occurred in 83% of the women with insulin-dependent diabetes (26% in control group).  The rate of postpartum infection was five times higher in the group with insulin-dependent diabetes and they were susceptible to more kinds of infections.  Although there was no overall difference among the indices of glycemic control, hemoglobin A1 obtained before the infection was higher than during infection.  We conclude that a high rate of infection exists in pregnant women with diabetes; infection and poor glycemic control may be associated, but it is unclear whether improvement in metabolic control will reduce this high infection rate.
Treating systemic fungal infections in AIDS patients. Prolonging life against the odds.  Fungal infections have become one of the major causes of death among immunocompromised patients, particularly patients with AIDS.  Accurate and quick diagnosis is difficult; therefore, empirical therapy is often necessary.  This scenario is complicated by the fact that most antifungal agents are toxic at the doses used or relatively ineffective against deep-seated mycoses.  Because the population of AIDS patients is increasing, physicians will be faced more often with the management of systemic fungal infections.  Despite the current bleak prognosis for these patients, several new antigen detection tests are being developed and triazole agents are proving to be effective and less toxic than their predecessors.  Many cases of systemic mycoses do result in mortality, but appropriate treatment can both prolong life and improve its quality.
Detection of interleukin-3 in the serum of mice infected with Mycobacterium lepraemurium.  Infection of mice by Mycobacterium lepraemurium is accompanied by ablation of erythropoiesis in the bone marrow and gross enlargement of the spleen.  This, together with increased monocytopoiesis and the earlier demonstration of macrophage colony-stimulating factor in the serum of infected mice, suggested the activity of additional cytokines.  Eight weeks after infection of mice by M.  lepraemurium, interleukin-3 (IL-3) activity was demonstrated in the serum (titer, 1:3200).  The serum titer of IL-3 activity was maximal after 13 weeks (greater than 1:6400) and was slightly reduced after 18 weeks (1:6400).  That the IL-3 activity detected in the serum of the M.  lepraemurium-infected mice reflected the presence of IL-3 itself was confirmed by a neutralization assay using anti-murine IL-3 antibodies; IL-3 activity in the serum of mice 13 weeks after infection was completely abolished by the anti-IL-3 antibodies.  Finally, a 1-kb signal of IL-3 RNA was detected in the spleens of M.  lepraemurium-infected mice 13 weeks after infection.
Thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children.  Thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions, including infectious diseases.  We studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections, particularly pneumonia with empyema in children.  A systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted.  Twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied.  Thrombocytosis (platelet counts greater than 500 x 10(3)/microliters) was present in 92.5%.  Platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 +/- 3.7 days (range, 7 to 25) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness.  Compared with a healthy control group, significant thrombocytosis, but of lower incidence, was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion, bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis.  Platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed.  Bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia.  We found no correlation between thrombocytosis, neutrophilia, fever, the clinical course, complications, prognosis or treatment.  Neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed.
Evidence of subclinical blastomycosis in forestry workers in northern Minnesota and northern Wisconsin.  PURPOSE: To investigate the incidence of remote subclinical blastomycosis in a high-risk population of forestry workers.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 39 male forestry workers from northern Minnesota and northern Wisconsin, areas endemic for blastomycosis but not for histoplasmosis.  All subjects were histoplasmin skin test-negative, and none had ever been diagnosed with blastomycosis or pneumonia.  An antigen-specific lymphocyte stimulation assay was performed to determine the presence of blastomycosis.  RESULTS: Peripheral blood lymphocytes from 12 of 39 subjects demonstrated specific antigen-induced proliferation when stimulated with a purified alkali- and water-soluble antigen derived from the cell wall of Blastomyces dermatitidis.  CONCLUSION: The finding that 30% of these men had evidence of previous blastomycosis suggests that subclinical cases do occur sporadically, and are probably more common than diagnosed symptomatic cases.  This is similar to histoplasmosis, in which the majority of infections are subclinical.  However, the reservoir of persons with previous undiagnosed blastomycosis is probably small compared to the huge number of persons (perhaps 30 million) with prior histoplasmosis.
Effect of blood transfusion on oxygen consumption in pediatric septic shock.  Treatment plans for pediatric septic shock advocate increasing oxygen consumption (VO2).  Recent studies in septic shock indicate that improving oxygen delivery (DO2) by increasing blood flow will increase VO2.  We prospectively examined the effect on VO2 of improving DO2 by increasing oxygen content (CO2) with blood transfusion in eight hemodynamically stable septic shock patients.  Transfusion consisted of 8 to 10 ml/kg of packed RBC over 1 to 2 h.  Hemodynamic and oxygen transport measurements were obtained before and after blood transfusion.  Transfusion significantly (p less than .05) increased Hgb and Hct from 10.2 +/- 0.8 g/dl and 30 +/- 2% to 13.2 +/- 1.4 g/dl and 39 +/- 4%, respectively (mean +/- SD).  DO2 significantly (p less than .05) increased after transfusion (599 +/- 65 to 818 +/- 189 ml/min.m2), but VO2 did not change (166 +/- 68 to 176 +/- 74 ml/min.m2; NS).  In pediatric septic shock patients, increasing CO2 by blood transfusion may not increase VO2.
Tetracyclines in urology: current concepts   Tetracyclines have an unusually broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity.  They are generally well tolerated, with relatively few side effects compared with alternative antibiotic choices.  Tetracyclines also compare favorably with newer antimicrobials, i.e., oral quinolones, with respect to cost and microbial resistance.  Doxycycline's and minocycline's spectrum of antibacterial activity, pharmacokinetic profile, and safety profile make them preferred drugs when tetracyclines are indicated in urologic infections.
Severe anemia is an important negative predictor for survival with disseminated Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [published erratum appears in Am Rev Respir Dis 1991 Feb;143(2):451]  Disseminated Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare (MAI) in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is usually unresponsive to antimycobacterial therapy.  We examined clinical and laboratory characteristics of MAI organisms and their relationship to the length of survival.  We studied factors influencing survival and compared these in 76 patients with AIDS with and without MAI.  Serum levels of p24 antigen and erythropoietin, and CD4-positive helper T-lymphocytes in blood were assessed in 36 additional patients with various clinical stages of HIV infection.  In patients with MAI infection, survival was significantly related only to total lymphocyte count, hematocrit, platelet count, and sex.  Of these, hematocrit and total lymphocyte count were the only linear predictors of survival.  Anemia was significantly more profound in patients with AIDS and MAI than in the other patients.  This anemia in patients with MAI could not be ascribed to increased peripheral destruction of red cells, deficient nutritional factors, or erythropoietin production, HIV viral or bacterial load, or a general effect on other blood elements such as neutrophils or platelets.  The influence of MAI on survival in patients with AIDS did depend upon whether the MAI occurred as an index infection or was preceded by other opportunistic infections.  Patients with other preceding opportunistic infection lived for a much shorter duration from the time of diagnosis of MAI.
Post-cannulation radial artery aneurysm--a rare complication.  The following case report describes an expanding aneurysmal dilatation of the radial artery which developed 17 days following cannulation.  Possible causes of this complication are: abnormal state of the vessel wall, multiple attempts at cannulation, and haematoma or infection at cannulation site.  Other major and minor sequelae following arterial cannulation are reviewed.
Quantitation of Tamm-Horsfall protein binding to uropathogenic Escherichia coli and lectins.  In quantitative experiments using ELISA, binding of Tamm-Horsfall protein (THP) to uropathogenic Escherichia coli was studied with monoclonal antibody to THP.  Adherence to E.  coli bearing type 1 fimbriae was proportional to THP concentration and size of the bacterial inoculum.  Type 1 fimbriae-bearing E.  coli bound 50 times more THP than did non-type 1-fimbriated or P-fimbriated strains.  Concanavalin A and wheat germ agglutinin bound THP in a dose-dependent fashion, whereas pokeweed mitogen and Vicia villosa B4 isolectin did not.  Addition of mannose and N-acetylglucosamine reduced adherence of THP to concanavalin A and wheat germ agglutinin by 50%-80%.  Sugar inhibition studies suggested that the fimbrial receptor site for THP has lectin-like properties and that THP binds to fimbriae via its mannose side chains.  This quantitative assay is useful for studying the interaction between THP, uroepithelial cells, and bacteria in vitro.
Urinary infection following out-patient flexible cystoscopy.  Of 161 flexible cystoscopies performed in an out-patient endoscopy suite, the incidence of urinary tract infection was 7.5%.  Infection rates were higher in patients with a history of previous urinary tract infection or where an additional procedure was also performed.  No difference was noted between the infection rates in men and women.
Risk factors for Staphylococcus aureus nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients.  Staphylococcus aureus nosocomial pneumonia has become an important infection not only because of an apparently increasing incidence but also because of its high mortality rate.  A total of 50 episodes of nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients in which etiologic diagnosis was well established were prospectively followed in a medical-surgical intensive care unit (ICU).  S.  aureus was isolated in a total of 13 episodes.  In the univariate analysis the variables significantly associated with S.  aureus nosocomial pneumonia were below 25 yr of age, coma, nonuse of corticosteroids, and antecedent trauma.  A step-forward logistic regression analysis defined only coma as significantly influencing the risk of developing S.  aureus nosocomial pneumonia.  We suggest that antimicrobial drugs active against S.  aureus must be included in the initial empirical antimicrobial regimen for treating nosocomial pneumonia in patients with coma.  The identification of factors influencing the etiology and the possibility of earlier effective antimicrobial treatment may represent a further step in the control of nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients by improving its prognosis.
Epidemiologic differences between chlamydia and gonorrhea.  To assess the prevalence, demographics, and transmission patterns of genital chlamydia infection, we screened 3,078 patients, and compared identified cases (N = 511) to gonorrhea cases (N = 291) diagnosed in the same setting.  Chlamydia cases were younger and more likely to be White than their gonorrhea counterparts.  Chlamydia cases were distributed diffusely; geographic overlap between the two diseases was only about 40 percent.  Gonococcal coinfection was noted in less than 10 percent of patients with chlamydia.  Nearly half of men with chlamydia and four-fifths of women were asymptomatic and most cases were identified through screening or contact tracing.  Populations at high risk for chlamydia are seemingly different from those for gonorrhea.  Differences may be due to control interventions (active for gonorrhea, passive for chlamydia).  Chlamydia case reporting and control initiatives are recommended.
Why use drains?  There is no firm published evidence to support the use of closed suction drains.  Over 20 years ago, large studies by the Public Health Laboratory Service and the National Research Council found that drains were risk factors for wound infection.  A prospective randomised study of the use of closed suction drains after surgery for fractured neck of femur in 70 patients failed to show that drains improved wound healing.  Drained cases had more complications.
hemofiltration reverses left ventricular dysfunction during sepsis in dogs.  Depressed left ventricular (LV) contractility in sepsis has been ascribed to the presence of circulating cardiodepressant substance (filterable cardiodepressant factor in sepsis [FCS]); however, this finding is controversial.  The authors hypothesized that if a decrease in LV contractility indeed occurred due to a circulating depressant substance, then removal of this substance by hemofiltration would reverse by dysfunction.  In this study, LV mechanics were examined before and after hemofiltration in anesthetized dogs during continuous intravenous infusion of live Escherichia coli.  Left ventricular anterior-posterior and apex-base dimensions were measured by subendocardial ultrasonic crystal transducers implanted 4 weeks before the experiments.  Left ventricular contractility was determined from the end-systolic pressure-dimension relationship.  The slope of this relationship (Emax) is an index of contractility.  After 4 h of sepsis, Emax was reduced by one half.  Hemofiltration resulted in a return of Emax to control values.  The FCS activity in the plasma was also assessed by the percent reduction in isometric contraction of electrically stimulated, isolated right ventricular trabeculae obtained from nonseptic dogs.  The FCS activity reached a peak 4 h after sepsis and was reduced after 2 h of hemofiltration.  The results show that during experimental sepsis, a circulating substance of less than 30,000 d produces a decrease in LV contractility and that this LV dysfunction may be improved by hemofiltration.
Clinical course and pharmacokinetics following a massive overdose of amphotericin B in a neonate.  Amphotericin is the drug of choice for the treatment of fungal infections in infants and children.  When used in the recommended doses, amphotericin therapy is associated with high rates of adverse effects, including nephrotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, decrease in white blood cells, platelets and hemoglobin, chills, fever and even death (1).  We report a case involving a neonate who was exposed to a 50 fold overdose of Amphotericin over a three day period.
Leprotic involvement of peripheral nerves in the absence of skin lesions. Case report and literature review.  In the absence of clinically apparent cutaneous lesions, primarily neural leprosy is uncommon.  Primarily neural leprosy presents clinically as a peripheral neuropathy that most frequently affects motor nerves and that occasionally involves sensory nerves as well.  The long incubation period for leprosy and its occurrence outside endemic areas often lead to delayed diagnosis.  We present a case of glove and stocking hypoesthesia, weakness of the flexor muscle of the right great toe, palpable thickening of the right popliteal nerve, and hypoesthetic but normal-appearing areas on the back, which developed in a Trinidadian immigrant who lived in Canada for 16 years.  A skin biopsy specimen obtained from a visibly normal but hypoesthetic area on the back demonstrated a few acid-fast bacteria in small dermal nerves, in arrector pili smooth muscle, and in rare perivascular histiocytes, associated with a sparse mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate.  The patient responded well to therapy with dapsone, rifampin, and clofazamine.  A classification and review of primarily neural leprosy is presented.  Our patient represents the first reported case of primarily neural borderline lepromatous leprosy in Canada.
Individualizing treatment of vaginal candidiasis.  Clinicians have a vast array of effective antimycotics for the treatment of vaginal candidiasis.  Multiple topical formulations are available, yet there is little evidence to suggest that formulation per se influences outcome.  A growing number of highly effective oral systemic antimycotic agents provide the practitioner with additional options.  Treatment regimens have also changed with the introduction of shorter, often single-day/single-dose courses of therapy.  Not all therapeutic agents have the same activity against vaginal fungal pathogens in that topical azoles tend to be more active than nystatin.  Differences in patient characteristics, however, are more important than the differences between antimycotic agents and therapeutic regimens in determining selection of the appropriate antimycotic.  Patients with vaginal candidiasis vary with regard to duration and severity of symptoms and past frequency of attacks, distribution of inflammation, and pregnancy status.  The clinician should consider all these variables both in selecting the appropriate antimycotic agent and the route of administration and in planning the duration of therapy.  Individualized therapy offers additional benefits to patients, who may then enjoy the maximum advantages of antimycotics now available.
Recombinant capsular antigen (fraction 1) from Yersinia pestis induces a protective antibody response in BALB/c mice.  Yersinia pestis produces a glycoprotein capsule, the biosynthesis of which appears to be temperature dependent.  The fraction I (F1) component of this capsule is specific to Y.  pestis and the detection of F1 antibodies is the basis for several serological tests.  We report the cloning of the F1 gene and its expression in Escherichia coli using the phagemid vector lambda ZAPII and a F1-specific monoclonal antibody.  The recombinant F1 antigen had a molecular weight of 17 kDa, which proved to be identical to that of the F1 antigen produced by Y.  pestis.  The recombinant cells produced F1 antigen at 37 degrees C but only minimal amounts at 27 degrees C, suggesting that the genetic features affected by temperature in Y.  pestis may be operating in the E.  coli clone.  It is not known if their similar molecular weights reflect the glycosylated nature of both proteins.  F1 antigen purified from the E.  coli recombinant induced a protective immune response in BALB/c mice challenged with up to 10(5) virulent Y.  pestis.  The resistance of immunized mice to plague infection correlated with high titers of F1 antibody.  The cloned gene expresses an immunogenically competent F1 antigen suitable for use in plague serodiagnostics and vaccine development.
Spectrum of invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b disease in adults.  A prospective nationwide surveillance of invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b disease among adults (greater than or equal to 16 years old) was conducted in Finland during 1985 through 1988.  Thirty-one cases were identified (annual incidence, 0.22/100,000).  Of these infections, 71% occurred in patients with severe underlying conditions.  The overall case fatality rate was 26%.  Septicemia (13 patients) and pneumonia (seven patients) were the most common clinical manifestations of H influenzae type b infection; the others were epiglottitis (six patients), meningitis (three patients), and arthritis (two patients).  Epiglottitis occurred in significantly younger patients, all of whom were women and four of whom were previously healthy.  Subtyping of the H influenzae type b isolates according to the major outer membrane protein subtype, biotype, and lipopolysaccharide serotype showed that patterns that were uncommon (14%) among children were more common (27%) in the adults.
Mycoplasmal pneumonia. Are you thinking of atypical presentations?  The presentations of mycoplasmal pneumonia can be varied and sometimes complicated.  The atypical nature of this illness, as opposed to the clear pattern of findings in classic bacterial pneumonias, leads the physician to the diagnosis.  Appropriate therapy then allows quick improvement as a rule, with few sequelae.
Endocarditis due to ampicillin-resistant nontyphoid Salmonella: cure with a third-generation cephalosporin.  A case of ampicillin-resistant salmonella bacteremia complicated by endocarditis in a 78-year-old man is presented.  Previous rheumatic valvular heart disease and the lack of response to initial treatment with chloramphenicol prompted us to consider this diagnosis.  There was a good clinical response after treatment with ceftriaxone alone and corresponding improvement on the echocardiogram.  This case demonstrates the possible endovascular complications of salmonella bacteremia in elderly people and that endocarditis should be included among the invasive infections due to ampicillin-resistant Salmonella that could potentially be treated with the newer cephalosporins.
Group B streptococcus endocarditis following second-trimester abortion.  An 18-year-old woman who underwent an elective second-trimester abortion developed Streptococcus agalactiae (group B streptococcus) endocarditis characterized by a large, pedunculated vegetation involving a previously normal tricuspid valve.  Polyarthritic symptoms, as well as multiple pulmonary emboli, were experienced, and cure followed a course of treatment using intravenous penicillin G potassium combined with gentamicin sulfate.  Endocarditis caused by this pathogen usually occurs among individuals compromised by underlying chronic disorders and, today, is a rare sequela of pregnancy and abortion.  When planning therapy, consideration should be given to the possibility of tolerance among clinical isolates and the need for operative intervention in selected patients.
Treatment of chronic tinea pedis (athlete's foot type) with topical terbinafine.  Twenty-seven patients with chronic tinea pedis, athlete's foot type, were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind trial of topical treatment with terbinafine 1% cream versus its vehicle (placebo).  Patients were examined weekly during 4 weeks of twice-daily treatment and at follow-up 2 weeks after the conclusion of therapy.  No adverse events were reported in either treatment group.  Drug efficacy was evaluated in 22 patients, of whom nine (41%) were treated with terbinafine and 13 (59%) with placebo.  Analysis of combined mycologic and clinical results showed that terbinafine was significantly more effective than placebo at the end of therapy (78% vs zero) and at the 2-week follow-up (89% vs zero) (p less than or equal to 0.001 at both intervals.
Eustachian valve endocarditis.  M mode and cross sectional echocardiography showed a highly mobile globular pedunculated mass(3.0 cm long with a maximum diameter of i.5 cm) attached to the eustachian valve in a heroin addict with staphylococcal endocarditis.
New isotopic technique for detecting prosthetic arterial graft infection: 99mTc-hexametazime-labelled leucocyte imaging.  Early and accurate detection of prosthetic arterial graft infection is important because this serious complication of vascular surgery carries high morbidity and mortality rates.  This report describes the use of a new method of isotopic imaging to detect graft infection using 99mTc-hexametazime-labelled leucocytes.  Seventeen patients with potentially infected arterial grafts were imaged in addition to routine investigations but were managed according to our normal surgical practice.  99mTc-imaging was positive in eight patients with proven graft infection and falsely positive in one patient with a groin haematoma (89 per cent specificity).  There were no false negatives (100 per cent sensitivity) after an average follow-up of 6 months (range 3-9 months).  This technique has proved a reliable and rapid method of confirming graft infection.
Management of mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta after heart-lung transplantation.  A 19-year-old woman underwent heart-lung transplantation for obstructive bronchiolitis.  Eleven days later mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta occurred.  Emergency cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted via the femoral vessels and the chest was reopened under cardiac massage.  Perforation of the aorta at the site of insertion of the cardioplegic cannula in the donor aorta was seen.  Under circulatory arrest the infected area was excised, a pericardial patch plasty was performed, and the region was covered with a muscle flap.  Postoperatively, Candida albicans was found in the excised specimen of the aorta, in drainage fluid, and in the bronchoalveolar lavage.  High doses of antimycotics were administered intravenously and for irrigation of the mediastinum, which resulted in an eradication of fungi in all cultures 7 days later.  Six weeks after reoperation the patient was discharged home, and she remains well 9 months postoperatively.
Mechanical cardiopulmonary support for refractory cardiogenic shock.  From February 1982 to February 1990, 38 patients (30 male patients and 8 female patients) ranging in age from 10 to 78 years (mean 49.4 years) have been supported with arteriovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) at St.  Louis University Medical Center as a resuscitative system for cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock.  All patients were unresponsive to conventional resuscitative measures including an intraaortic balloon pump in 25 patients.  Patients were resuscitated in the intensive care unit, cardiac catheterization laboratory, or the emergency department.  Diagnosis varied from acute myocardial infarctions (12 patients), ischemic disease (15 patients), end-stage cardiomyopathy (7 patients), congenital heart disease (3 patients), or postoperative cardiac transplant graft rejection (1 patient).  Three patients could not be resuscitated with ECMO because of low flow, but the remaining 35 (92%) achieved hemodynamic stability with ECMO flows greater than 2 L/min/m2.  Duration of support ranged from 0.5 to 130 hours (mean 28 hours).  Twenty-four patients were successfully weaned from ECMO support after coronary artery bypass (five patients), cardiac transplantation (two patients), or ventricular assist device insertion (eight patients), or with inotropic support (nine patients).  Of the 14 patients not weaned, three were inadequately resuscitated, two had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty while receiving ECMO, and nine were not candidates for further intervention.  Nine (24%) patients were discharged and are long-term survivors.  Our results indicate that resuscitative ECMO is useful for intervals of 12 to 24 hours and can best be applied with (1) patients younger than 60 years of age; (2) patients having acute events (failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty) amenable to surgical intervention; and (3) candidates for cardiac transplantation who could be switched to more sophisticated devices within 12 to 24 hours of ECMO insertion.  With these criteria, ECMO, when used as a resuscitative system, can result in increased survival in selected patients with refractory cardiogenic shock or cardiac arrest.
The patellofemoral joint after total knee arthroplasty without patellar resurfacing.  One hundred total knee replacements with a total condylar prosthesis and without patellar resurfacing were followed for a minimum of two years.  Eighty-four per cent of the knees were affected by osteoarthrosis.  Graded according to the knee-rating system of the Hospital for Special Surgery, there were eighteen excellent, fifty-three good, eighteen fair, and eleven poor results.  At the most recent follow-up, twenty-nine knees (29 per cent), nine of which were affected by rheumatoid arthritis, were still painful in the patellofemoral area.  The height and weight of the patient definitely influenced the amount of patellofemoral pain postoperatively.  Small patients who had osteoarthrosis were exceptionally free of pain, regardless of sex, age, or level of activity.  It seems that the best approach to patellofemoral replacement includes resurfacing of the patella in all patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and in patients who have osteoarthrosis if they have preoperative patellofemoral pain, are more than 160 centimeters tall, weigh more than sixty kilograms, and have advanced changes in the patella at the time of the operation.
Streptococcus mitis sepsis in bone marrow transplant patients receiving oral antimicrobial prophylaxis.  PURPOSE: Streptococcal infection has increasingly become a problem in neutropenic patients.  We report on an outbreak of Streptococcus mitis sepsis in six bone marrow transplant patients receiving oral antimicrobial prophylaxis.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed an epidemiologic study of all patients in our bone marrow transplant program from 1986 to 1988.  The hospital and microbiology records for all patients were reviewed.  All bone marrow patients were treated according to specified protocols, including an oral prophylactic antimicrobial regimen that was changed in late 1987 from vancomycin/polymyxin/tobramycin to norfloxacin.  Identification, susceptibility testing, and whole cell protein analysis of streptococcal isolates were performed at the Reference and Antimicrobial Investigations Laboratories at the Centers for Disease Control.  RESULTS: We detected six cases of S.  mitis sepsis among 21 patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation.  No other concurrent pathogen was isolated from any patient at the time of the S.  mitis bacteremia.  Bacteremia developed within 72 hours of transplant in five of six patients and was associated with severe mucositis in four patients.  An environmental study failed to reveal any common source for the outbreak, and whole cell protein analysis of all six S.  mitis isolates revealed each to be distinct.  Of 12 patients receiving oral vancomycin/polymyxin/tobramycin, one developed S.  mitis bacteremia, versus five of nine patients receiving norfloxacin (p less than 0.03).  CONCLUSION: We believe S.  mitis bacteremia is a potential complication of bone marrow transplantation and is associated with antimicrobial prophylaxis with norfloxacin, especially in the setting of mucositis.
Reduction of gastric ulcer recurrence after suppression of Helicobacter pylori by cefixime.  The effect on the recurrence of gastric ulcers after suppression of Helicobacter pylori by combined treatment with cimetidine and the antimicrobial drug cefixime was investigated.  Twenty one of 43 patients with endoscopically proved gastric ulcer and H pylori infection were randomly assigned to receive cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks; the remaining 22 patients received cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks plus cefixime 100 mg daily for the last two weeks.  After treatment, 88% of 17 patients on cimetidine only remained H pylori positive, whereas combined administration of cimetidine and cefixime had suppressed H pylori in 78% of 18 patients (p less than 0.05).  Seventeen patients in the former group whose ulcers healed but who remained H pylori positive and 18 patients in the latter group whose ulcers healed and who were no longer infected with H pylori continued to be followed after treatment.  These patients underwent endoscopy to detect ulcer recurrence if symptomatic, or at 12 and 24 weeks if asymptomatic.  At 12 weeks, recurrence was observed in seven of 15 (47%) patients in whom H pylori persisted, but in only one of 14 (7%) patients in whom H pylori had been suppressed (p less than 0.05).  At 24 weeks, however, recurrence rates were similar between the two groups.  These findings indicate that H pylori infection may be closely related to early ulcer recurrence.
Cumulative AIDS incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections.  To determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) experienced increased deaths from sepsis, central nervous system abscess, or endocarditis, New Jersey AIDS patients were grouped according to their age, sex, race, and residence-specific cumulative incidence of AIDS since the onset of the AIDS epidemic.  Between 1980 and 1986, among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for AIDS, sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 11.9 deaths/100,000/year (95% confidence interval (6.9, 17.0) deaths/100,000/year); mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 (0.1, 3.2) deaths/100,000/year; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100,000/year to 2.4 deaths/100,000/year, an increase of 1.6 (-0.5, 3.7) deaths/100,000/year.  Age-matched New Jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of AIDS did not sustain a similar increase.  The HIV disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in U.S.  sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades, but was previously limited to older populations.
Streptococcus bovis meningitis: report of 2 cases.  We describe 2 cases of Streptococcus bovis meningitis and review the 9 cases previously reported.  This microorganism is a rare cause of meningitis in which there are no distinctive clinical or laboratory features.  The Gram stain of the CSF is usually negative.  Ten of the 11 cases had some underlying disease or comorbid condition that predisposed to S bovis infection: gastrointestinal disorder, endocarditis, CSF leak, polymyalgia rheumatica, and mandibular block.  Treatment with high-dose penicillin is usually adequate.
Yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the transverse colon. Report of a case.  Yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the bowel is a rare entity.  Only five cases have previously been reported--none in the surgical literature.  A unique presentation for Yersinia infection, abscess of the transverse colon, is described, and the literature of Y.  enterocolitica intestinal perforation and abscess is reviewed.
Activity of compound G2 isolated from alfalfa roots in experimental dermatophyte infection.  Compound G2 isolated from alfalfa roots was applied topically to skin lesions of guinea pigs experimentally infected with the dermatophyte Trichophyton mentagrophytes var.  granulare.  After 12 to 15 applications, 80% of the infected lesions were cured, as judged by clinical and microbial criteria, compared with 20% of the untreated lesions which healed spontaneously (P less than 0.01).
Vaginal infections in adult women.  Often trivialized by the medical profession, vaginitis in adult women is not only extremely common but is the source of considerable distress and often results in marked suffering.  Epidemiologic studies described in this article indicate the high prevalence of vaginitis and the large number of causes.  Although the majority of infections in women are due to bacterial vaginosis, VVC, and trichomoniasis, it is clear that many other causes exist, and we have yet to discover the etiology of many clinical syndromes.  Considerable progress has been made in understanding the pathogenesis of the three common vaginitides.  Although excellent progress has been made by the pharmaceutical industry in providing new drugs for vaginitis, any further progress will require a better understanding of etiology and pathogenesis.  Vaginitis causes major symptoms and is more than a nuisance problem.  Clinicians owe it to their patients to attempt to make an accurate diagnosis and not to rely on empiric therapy.
Sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis: two cases with differing dermatologic syndromes.  Sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis is a rare rheumatic condition characterized by ossification and erosion of the clavicle and the first rib, that has been shown to be associated with pustular skin lesions.  We present 2 cases, one of which had features of pustulosis palmaris et plantaris and the other dissecting cellulitis of the scalp.  Although the dermatologic manifestations differ, both cases have rheumatologic and roentgenographic features diagnostic of sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis.
Treatment evaluation of experimental staphylococcal infections: comparison of beta-lactam, lipopeptide, and glycopeptide antimicrobial therapy.  LY 146032, teicoplanin, vancomycin, oxacillin, cephalothin, cefamandole, ampicillin plus sulbactam, and cefoperazone plus sulbactam were studied against six isolates of staphylococci (including both Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase negative staphylococci) using in vivo and in vitro methods.  In vitro susceptibility measurements demonstrated that all six isolates were sensitive to LY 146032 and vancomycin and that five of six isolates were sensitive to tiecoplanin, cefamandole, ampicillin plus sulbactam, and cefoperazone plus sulbactam.  Comparison of antimicrobial therapy in an in vivo rabbit model demonstrated that cefoperazone plus sulbactam was active against the greatest number of isolates (five of six) based on a reduction of greater than or equal to 5.0 log10 colony forming units per milliliter (CFU/ml) from growth control at the end of the animal treatment study.  Vancomycin and oxacillin were equal in achieving reductions of greater than or equal to 5.0 log10 CFU/ml in four of the six isolates.  Comparing each isolate's in vivo outcome to in vitro data shows that in vitro susceptibility tests overpredict the sensitivity of these six isolates to LY 146032 and vancomycin, are variable for teicoplanin, cefamandole, ampicillin plus sulbactam, and cefoperazone plus sulbactam, and underpredict for oxacillin.
Common nonvenereal genital lesions.  There are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region.  These lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms.  The purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease.
Anti-Kveim monoclonal antibody. New monoclonal antibody reacting to epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas.  A monoclonal antibody to the sarcoid granulomagenic agent contained in Kveim suspension was prepared by immunizing mice with Kveim suspension.  One monoclonal antibody (IHY-1) that reacted with the epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas on immunoperoxidase technique was selected.  The immunoperoxidase technique was used to compare this monoclonal antibody's binding to sarcoidosis- or tuberculosis-affected lymph nodes.  IHY-1 is a monoclonal antibody of IgM class.  This antibody did not react to erythrocytes, lymphocytes, monocytes, alveolar macrophages, or the macrophage-derived cell lines such as U-973 and KG-1.  It reacted to granuloma epithelioid cells of sarcoidosis-affected lymph nodes.  The monoclonal antibody also reacted positively to epithelioid cells in tuberculous granulomas although the reaction was not as strong.  Since IHY-1 was found to bind to both types of granulomas, this suggests that the epithelioid cells in sarcoidosis have antigenicity common to the epithelioid cells in tuberculosis.
Cutaneous lesions of disseminated histoplasmosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients.  Disseminated histoplasmosis is being diagnosed more frequently in persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus and is often the initial manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).  Disease-related cutaneous features of HIV-associated disseminated histoplasmosis are defined as mucocutaneous lesions from which fungal organisms were either cultured or demonstrated histopathologically.  We report four HIV-seropositive patients with disseminated histoplasmosis who had culture-positive skin or oral lesions of histoplasmosis and review the specific cutaneous manifestations of HIV-associated disseminated histoplasmosis.  Including our patients, disease-related skin and/or mucosal lesions were present in 11% of patients (26% of 239) with HIV-associated disseminated histoplasmosis.  The possibility of disseminated histoplasmosis should be considered in all HIV-infected persons and in persons with AIDS risk factors who have fever, weight loss, hepatosplenomegaly, and new cutaneous lesions.  An early skin or mucosal biopsy specimen for crushed tissue preparation, histologic evaluation, and fungal culture is a simple, rapid diagnostic procedure.
Causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers.  The authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital.  There were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse, and in 41% of these, chronic alcoholism was implicated.  Deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11% of all cases.  The mean age at death was 39 years.  There was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1.  Half of all patients died from infection--72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) alone.  These findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that AIDS and chronic alcoholism are significant problems.  Emphasis should be placed upon detecting "hidden" intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information.
Reduction of contamination at total hip replacement by special working clothes.  We assessed wound, air and operative field contamination at 50 total hip operations, performed in a zonal ventilation system.  Theatre staff wore either a specially designed polypropylene non-woven coverall or conventional cotton shirt and trousers.  The surgeons wore partially impermeable operating gowns.  The polypropylene coverall was associated with significantly lower air and wound counts.  The coverall was warmer than cotton but judged to be acceptable.  The combined use of zonal ventilation and the coverall achieved ultra-clean air conditions.
Effect of sample volume on yield of positive blood cultures from adult patients with haematological malignancy.  Six hundred and sixteen blood samples from patients with haematological malignancy were each distributed equally among three identical cells in a Malthus Microbiological Growth Analyser.  The mean (SD) volumes inoculated into sets in which one, two, or three of the three bottles were positive were 37.7 (10.1) ml, 37.4 (12.9) ml, and 37.7 (10.5) ml, respectively.  Overall, clinically important organisms were isolated from one bottle only with 18 cultures, from two bottles only with 19 cultures, and from all three bottles in a set with 104 cultures.  If the yield from a single bottle inoculated with a mean volume of 12.6 ml blood is taken as 100%, the yield from 25.2 ml in two bottles was 110.7% and the yield from 37.7 ml in three bottles was 115.6%.  The increased yield from increased volume was considerably lower than that reported from unselected groups of patients, which suggests that the magnitude of bacteriaemia is greater in patients with neutropenia.  The isolation of infecting organisms from the blood of patients with neutropenia is, however, particularly important in directing chemotherapy and consequently 45 ml blood samples from these patients continue to be requested.
Catheter-related sepsis: prospective, randomized study of three methods of long-term catheter maintenance.  We studied the infectious risk of different methods of managing vascular catheters during long-term use.  Consecutive surgical ICU patients requiring triple lumen catheters, pulmonary artery catheters, or arterial catheters for greater than 7 days were prospectively randomized to one of three management groups: a) percutaneous (PERC) puncture with every 7-day catheter change at a new site, b) no weekly change (NWC) with a new site when changed, or c) guidewire exchange (GWX) with every 7-day catheter change at the same site.  In all groups, a catheter change was mandatory for a positive blood culture, skin site infection, or sepsis without a likely source.  Cultures were obtained when clinically indicated and at the time of every catheter change.  Catheter-related sepsis (CRS) was defined as a positive blood culture and catheter culture with the same organism.  A total of 112 patients met evaluation criteria.  There were no intergroup differences in age, primary diagnosis, severity of injury or illness, number of study days, number of protocol violations, route of catheterization, number of catheters present/patient day, catheter sepsis rate, or bacteremia rate.  The NWC group demonstrated an increased number of days/catheter, fewer catheter/subcutaneous tract segment cultures/patient, and a reduced incidence of catheter tip colonization.  These results occurred in a setting where the number of CRS episodes/patient was 0.17 for GWX, 0.22 for PERC, and 0.16 for NWC.  We conclude that there is no difference in infectious risk between these three methods of long-term catheter management.  The method with the least complications and expense should be used.
Pleuropulmonary tularemia: successful treatment with erythromycin.  A 64-year-old man had community-acquired pneumonia that was retrospectively diagnosed as pleuropulmonary tularemia.  He was successfully treated with erythromycin.  We review the case and briefly discuss the literature on this point.
Femoral artery cannulation for monitoring in critically ill children: prospective study.  Seventy-seven attempted percutaneous femoral artery cannulations were prospectively evaluated in 74 children.  Artery cannulation was successfully accomplished in 73 (95%) cases and lasted for a mean of 6 days.  Sixty percent of the catheters were inserted on the first attempt.  Fifty-two (71%) patients weighed less than 10 kg and 55 (75%) patients were less than 12 months old.  Fifty-one (70%) patients received inotropic support at the time of cannulation, and 27 (37%) eventually died from causes unrelated to catheter insertion.  There was one episode each of line-associated infection and transient distal ischemia not resulting in tissue loss, and two episodes of catheter malfunction.  In eight (11%) patients, signs of distal vascular insufficiency developed shortly catheter placement and resolved after catheter removal.  The development of this complication correlated significantly (p less than .05) with younger age (5.5 vs.  22.3 months).  We conclude that femoral artery cannulation has a high degree of success in very small, critically ill children.  It should be considered an acceptable alternative to small-vessel cannulation when the latter is not technically achievable, or in the unstable patient where rapid establishment of reliable arterial access is necessary.
Empiric treatment of fungal infections in the neutropenic host. Review of the literature and guidelines for use.  Persistent fever that is refractory to broad-spectrum antibacterials is common in neutropenic patients undergoing induction chemotherapy of acute leukemia.  Clinical experience suggests that many of these patients are infected with fungi.  Until recently, data supporting the role of empiric antifungal therapy in this setting were limited to small groups of patients or postmortem reports.  Evolving evidence in larger patient populations supports data from smaller series: febrile neutropenic patients who have failed to respond to a 4- to 7-day course of broad-spectrum antibacterials may benefit from the early initiation of antifungal therapy.  Patients with fungal colonization or pulmonary infiltrates and adult patients who have not received previous fungal prophylaxis may especially benefit from the early use of antifungal drugs.  Amphotericin B has been the "gold standard" for empiric antifungal therapy, although the newer azoles may be useful in certain situations.
Clostridium difficile invasion and toxin circulation in fatal pediatric pseudomembranous colitis.  The direct involvement of Clostridium difficile in the lesional tissue of pseudomembranous colitis has not been demonstrated; the organism's effects have been assumed to be strictly toxin mediated.  Because C.  difficile cytotoxin may be found incidentally in the intestinal lumina of asymptomatic infants, the role of the organism in a variety of pediatric intestinal diseases is uncertain.  The authors studied seven cases of fatal pediatric pseudomembranous colitis in which the presence of C.  difficile was uniformly demonstrable in lesional tissues with the use of both an intestinal spore stain and a specific immunostain.  The patients had either underlying Hirschsprung's disease or hematologic malignancy; the striking pathologic features peculiar to these patients were altered mucosal mucin and immunologic barriers in the former group and neutropenia in the latter.  Two patients had demonstrable circulating cytotoxin in serum or ascitic fluid, and C.  difficile was identified invading colonic mucosa or submucosa.  Such phenomena did not occur in control pediatric patients with multiple other intestinal lesions.  Altered host factors may be responsible for the intestinal invasion of C.  difficile and its systemic toxin circulation in cases of fatal pediatric pseudomembranous colitis.
Whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis?  Short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease.  We present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years.  Short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and, in some cases, with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits.  We think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate.
Human papillomavirus infections of the genital tract.  Infection of the genital tract by HPV is a sexually transmitted disease of increasing prevalence.  The association of HPV infection with genital tract malignancies is of great concern, and further studies are needed to clarify this association.  Few investigators believe at this time that proof of a direct causative role exists for HPV in these cancers, but indirect evidence of such a role is abundant.  There are many clinical forms of HPV infection of the genital tract, and few clinicians can easily recognize them all.  Treatment of condyloma acuminatum is difficult and frustrating.  Cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen is the safest and most effective therapy for most forms of condyloma acuminatum.  Recurrence of condyloma acuminatum is common with all presently used forms of therapy, probably owing to latent HPV infection in normal-appearing skin.  No form of treatment is ideal for all forms of condyloma acuminatum, but without continued efforts to find better therapeutic modalities and preventative measures, the epidemic of genital HPV infection will continue unchecked.
Enterobacter bacteremia in pediatric patients.  Enterobacter has emerged as an important human pathogen, particularly in sick, hospitalized patients.  Previous reports of nonepidemic enterobacter bacteremia have focused on adult patients.  In this report, the epidemiologic factors, clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcome for 33 patients with enterobacter bacteremia in a large children's hospital during a 5-year period are reviewed.  The ratio of males to females was 1.2:1.  The patients' ages ranged from 2 days to 24 years, and 18 patients were less than 18 months old.  Twenty-two cases were nosocomially acquired; six were polymicrobial in nature.  Significantly underlying conditions were present in 32 patients.  The biliary tract and central venous catheters were the most common sources of bacteremia.  Two-thirds of patients had preceding antibiotic therapy.  The overall mortality was 24%; mortality attributable to enterobacter bacteremia was 18%.  Statistically significant differences in mortality were associated with an age less than 18 months (P = .031) or thrombocytopenia (P = .017); presence of fever was of borderline significance (P = .098).  Enterobacter bacteremia is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in pediatric patients.
Approach to men with urethritis and urologic complications of sexually transmitted diseases.  The most important causes of urethritis, and epididymitis in younger men, are C.  trachomatis and N.  gonorrhoeae.  Management of these syndromes requires a thorough sexual history, genital examination, evaluation for objective and laboratory evidence of infection, antimicrobial therapy directed toward the major etiologies, and evaluation and treatment of sexual partners.  Treatment of N.  gonorrhoeae requires use of a single-dose regimen active against this organism, plus a 7- to 10-day tetracycline regime active against C.  trachomatis and nongonococcal urethritis.  With recommended regimens, microbiologic failure is infrequent in compliant patients.  Recurrent urethritis is frequent, however.  The management of patients with persistent or recurrent symptoms requires careful reevaluation of the patient, documentation of urethritis, and re-treatment with antimicrobials if urethritis is documented by positive cultures or increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions.  Additional treatment beyond this point usually is not indicated, even though a proportion of men will remain symptomatic and some of these will have increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions.  The most important causes of prostatitis, and epididymitis in older men or men with urethral structural abnormalities, are classical urinary tract pathogens rather than sexually transmitted pathogens.  Management of these infections includes documentation of the infection and treatment directed toward the specific pathogen.  Men with symptoms of "prostatitis" must be evaluated using both urine and prostatic secretions to document infection and inflammation.  The majority of men with such symptoms do not have an infection that can be documented.  These men respond poorly to medications.  Men with documented chronic bacterial prostatitis require long courses of antimicrobials to effect cure.  In some cases, however, the disease is intractable, and chronic suppression with antimicrobials may be necessary.
Brucella endocarditis: the role of combined medical and surgical treatment.  Brucella endocarditis, although a rare complication of brucellosis, is the main cause of death related to this disease.  This report describes a case of aortic endocarditis due to Brucella abortus in an elderly farmer with known aortic stenosis.  Urgent valve replacement was performed because of progressive heart failure despite appropriate antimicrobial treatment.  The infection was cured with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and rifampin given for 3 months after surgery.  A review of the literature reports on the 38 other cases of cured brucella endocarditis made clear the need for combined antimicrobial treatment and surgical valve replacement.
Bacterial infections in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.  Bacterial infections are often seen in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.  To determine the incidence of such infection and the more common infectious agents, 30 consecutive patients with visceral leishmaniasis were followed throughout hospitalization.  There were 24 episodes of bacterial infection in 18 patients (60%).  The incidence of bacterial infections in these patients was 22.2/1000 days of admission.  The proportion of patients becoming infected by time was significantly greater in the visceral leishmaniasis group than in controls (P less than .01).  The skin, respiratory tract, and middle ear were the most common sites of infection, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus were the most common agents.  Low-grade-virulence bacteria (e.g., Serratia and Providencia species) were also isolated from some cases.  Bacterial infections (mainly nosocomial) in patients with visceral leishmaniasis tend to be severe and can cause death.  When bacterial infection is suspected in these patients, empiric antibiotic therapy should be started immediately, including coverage for P.  aeruginosa and S.  aureus, after appropriate diagnostic procedures are taken.
Renal abscess in children.  Three cases of renal abscesses in children are described to illustrate the variable presenting features.  An additional 23 pediatric cases, reported over the past ten years, were reviewed for clinical features and therapy.  Fever, loin pain, and leukocytosis were common presenting features, but less than half of all abscesses were associated with either an abnormal urinalysis or a positive urine culture.  The presenting features were sometimes confused with appendicitis, peritonitis, or a Wilms tumor.  An organism was identified in 17 cases--Escherichia coli in 9 children and Staphylococcus aureus in 8 children.  The majority of E.  coli infections occurred in girls and the majority of S.  aureus infections occurred in boys.  Reflux was documented in 5 patients, and 2 children had a possible extrarenal source of infection.  Antibiotics alone produced a cure in 10 children (38%), but 16 children (62%) required a surgical procedure.
The prevalence of Helicobacter pylori in nonulcer dyspepsia. Importance of stratification according to age   Helicobacter pylori (formerly Campylobacter pylori) is causally related to active antral gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal and gastric ulcers.  However, the relationship of H pylori to nonulcer dyspepsia is less clear.  We determined the presence of H pylori in unselected patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy, and we found a prevalence of 37% in 110 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia that was similar to previous data.  Patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who had H pylori were found to be significantly older than patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who did not have H pylori.  In addition, when stratified according to age, we detected an increased prevalence of H pylori in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia with increasing age, similar to that reported for asymptomatic control populations.  This finding casts doubt as to the causal role of H pylori for most patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and stresses the importance of considering epidemiologic factors, such as age, when evaluating the role of H pylori in specific disease states.
A case of group B streptococcal pyomyositis   The group B streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias, puerperal sepsis, and neonatal meningitis.  Group B streptococcal infections of muscle are rare.  We report here an unusual case of group B streptococcal pyomyositis.  Pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus and, occasionally, Streptococcus pyogenes.  Because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates, the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms, and the frequently negative blood cultures, considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis; in fact, the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma, cellulitis, thrombophlebitis, osteomyelitis, or neoplasm.  Diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections.  The response to antibiotics is usually rapid, but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses.  This report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen.
Percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy for acute complicated cholecystitis in elderly patients.  We report our experience with percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy in 10 elderly patients with acute cholecystitis, complicated by empyema formation.  Most of these patients has severe underlying disease, rendering them at high risk for surgical intervention.  In all patients, the percutaneous procedure was followed by a rapid regression of clinical symptoms and of radiologic abnormalities.  Six were considered inoperable.  Three of these remain free of biliary symptoms, respectively 22, 10, and 7 months after percutaneous cholecystostomy.  Three others died of nonbiliary disease 1-4 months after cholecystostomy.  Three patients underwent successful elective cholecystostomy 1-5 wk after percutaneous cholecystostomy.  In one patient, cholecystectomy had to be performed because of recurrence of hydrops, 1 wk after catheter removal.  In our opinion, percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of elderly patients with acute complicated cholecystitis.  It can be followed by elective cholecystectomy in good surgical candidates, or by an expectant conservative management in high surgical risk patients.
Bacterial tracheitis: report of eight new cases and review.  Bacterial tracheitis, previously referred to as nondiphtheritic laryngitis with marked exudate, was commonly discussed in pediatric textbooks before 1940.  It seemed to disappear as a clinical entity after that time, but it has been recorded with increasing frequency in the pediatric literature since 1979.  We describe eight new cases and review 110 previously described cases.  The clinical course consists of a prodromal upper respiratory illness with stridor, fever, and a variable degree of respiratory distress.  Unlike patients with croup, patients with bacterial tracheitis do not respond to aerosolized racemic epinephrine.  Most patients require endotracheal intubation; some require tracheostomy.  Reported complications include pneumonia, pneumothorax, formation of pseudomembranes, toxic shock syndrome, and cardiopulmonary arrest.  Bacterial tracheitis is a secondary bacterial infection following a primary viral respiratory infection.  The most common preceding viral infection is parainfluenza.  Staphylococcus aureus and Haemophilus influenzae are the predominant causes of bacterial tracheitis.  Secondary bacterial infection may occur as a result of tracheal mucosal injury or impairment of normal phagocytic function due to viral infection.
Aerobic and anaerobic bacteriology of wounds and cutaneous abscesses.  The aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic characteristics of 584 wounds and 676 skin or soft-tissue abscesses were studied and correlated with the infection site.  In wounds, aerobic or facultative bacteria only were present in 223 specimens (38%), anaerobes only in 177 specimens (30%), and mixed flora in 184 specimens (32%).  In total there were 1470 isolates, 558 aerobic and 912 anaerobic, an average of 2.5 isolates per wound (1.6 anaerobic and 0.9 aerobic isolates).  In abscesses, aerobic or facultative bacteria were recovered in 177 specimens (26%), anaerobes only in 243 specimens (36%), and mixed flora in 256 specimens (38%).  In total there were 1702 isolates, 602 aerobic and 1100 anaerobic, an average of 2.5 isolates per abscess.  The highest rates of anaerobes in wounds were in the inguinal, buttocks, and trunk areas and in abscesses in the perirectal, external genitalia, neck, and inguinal areas.  The predominant aerobic organisms were Staphylococcus aureus (363 isolates), group A streptococci (98 isolates), and Escherichia coli (97 isolates).  The predominant anaerobic organisms were Bacteroides species (986 isolates), Peptostreptococcus species (559 isolates), Clostridium species (153 isolates), and Fusobacterium species (109 isolates).  The predominance of certain isolates in certain anatomical sites was correlated with their distribution in the normal flora adjacent to the infected site.  These data highlight the polymicrobial nature of wounds and cutaneous abscesses.
A 'silent' intracranial complication of frontal sinusitis.  Intracranial complications of frontal sinusitis, although rare today, do still develop despite widespread use of antibiotics.  We report a case which demonstrates how silently a frontal lobe abscess may present with subtle changes in mood and behaviour, with no focal neurological signs.  Diagnosis and management are discussed and a brief review of the incidence of intracranial complications of frontal sinusitis, mode of spread, clinical presentation, investigations, treatment and bacteriology is presented.
Treatment of oral candidosis with itraconazole: a review.  Oral candidosis is a common infection in infants, elderly persons, patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy, and patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).  The orally active antifungal agent itraconazole has been evaluated in a number of different patient populations with oral and oropharyngeal candidosis.  Initial studies have shown that itraconazole, 100 or 200 mg/day for 14 days, is more active than placebo in treating oral candidosis.  A comparative study between itraconazole capsules (200 mg once daily) and clotrimazole troches (10 mg five times daily) showed equivalent results at the end of therapy but a significantly faster response to itraconazole and a faster relapse rate with clotrimazole.  A study in AIDS patients with oropharyngeal candidosis demonstrated that itraconazole, 200 mg/day, and ketoconazole, 400 mg day, for 4 weeks give equivalent clinical cure rates and similar relapse rates.  A pilot study with an oral solution of itraconazole has given an impressive 100% clinical and mycological response rate within 1 week of treatment.  In conclusion, itraconazole in capsule or in solution form may constitute a major addition to the armamentarium of drugs against oropharyngeal candidosis.
Pyogenic sacroiliitis in a rural population.  We describe 10 cases of pyogenic sacroiliitis occurring in a rural population.  Seven were male and 3 were female with a mean age of 22.4 years.  None was a recent intravenous drug abuser.  Five patients had a history of recent pelvic trauma.  99mTechnetium scintiscans revealed increased sacroiliac (SI) joint uptake in 8 of 8 cases.  Blood cultures were positive in 60% of patients.  Staphylococcus aureus was isolated in 7 cases from blood and/or SI aspirates and Hemophilus influenzae type B in one case.  Nine of 10 patients recovered completely.  One underwent arthrodesis for recurrent SI pain without evidence of relapse of infection.  Median followup was 18 months.
The efficacy of pediatric blood culture sets in the determination of burn bacteremia.  A blood culture is an essential laboratory procedure necessary to confirm a septic episode.  However, it is important to collect the blood sample at the appropriate time with an acceptable technique.  The standard method is to collect at least 5 to 10 ml blood per culture bottle from patients with fevers.  However, this volume of blood is an unrealistic amount to take from the frequently febrile pediatric patient.  Alternatively, the pediatric blood culture bottle allows the collection of 1 ml blood per bottle to perform the same evaluation.  We evaluated the two techniques of blood-culture collection over a 9-month period and compared the results between adult and pediatric blood culture bottles.  Seventy-six patients, from November 1988 through February 1989, had blood cultures performed with the adult culture bottles, which produced a total of 1314 samples.  A total of 113 patients, from March through July 1989, had blood cultures performed with the pediatric culture bottles, which produced a total of 758 samples.  Percent recovery for the adult bottles versus the pediatric bottles was 13.95% versus 22.8% (p less than 0.0001).  Since the amount of blood necessary to isolate an infectious agent is critical not only for laboratory identification but also for the volume of blood of pediatric patients, these data clearly establish the efficacy of pediatric blood culture bottles and the utilization of smaller amounts of blood.  Not only did this approach significantly enhance organism recovery rate, but it may well be more cost-effective because fewer cultures need to be performed to isolate the infectious organism.
Toxic streptococcal syndrome.  The streptococcal toxic shocklike syndrome is a recently recognized, multisystem disorder that shares many of the features of staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome, but is caused by toxins elaborated by group A beta-hemolytic Streptococcus.  We describe a patient who fulfilled the major criteria for the clinical diagnosis of toxic shock syndrome (fever, hypotension, multisystem dysfunction, and diffuse macular erythroderma followed by desquamation) and who demonstrated serologic evidence suggesting streptococcal infection.  In patients presenting with clinical findings consistent with a toxic shocklike syndrome, the emergency physician should consider streptococcal infection as a potential etiology.
Bacteremia in an ambulatory setting. Improved outcome in children treated with antibiotics.  We undertook a study of 414 bacteremic patients (167 with Haemophilus influenzae and 247 with Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteremia) to evaluate their clinical presentation, laboratory and clinical results, and subsequent outcomes.  Patients with H influenzae bacteremia were more likely to have soft-tissue foci, poorer clinical appearance at presentation, and be at higher risk for subsequent serious focal infections, persistent bacteremia, and subsequent hospital admissions than patients with S pneumoniae.  Patients with H influenzae bacteremia had a 21.1-fold increase in risk of meningitis (95% confidence interval [CI] of 3.8 to 78.0) compared with those with S pneumoniae.  The odds ratio for initial lumbar puncture was 5.25 (95% CI [1.1-23.6]).  Ambulatory patients treated with antibiotics at presentation were less likely to develop new serious soft-tissue infections, persistent bacteremia, or to require subsequent hospital admissions than untreated patients.  The effect of treatment was greater for patients with S pneumoniae than those with H influenzae.  Careful follow-up and reevaluation of patients with presumptive bacteremia is essential because treated and untreated patients can still develop serious soft-tissue infections.
Group C streptococcal arthritis: case report and review.  Streptococci account for approximately 15%-20% of cases of nongonococcal septic arthritis.  The majority of these are due to group A streptococci, but group B and group G streptococci are being isolated more frequently.  We present a case of group C streptococcal arthritis and summarize nine additional cases reported in the literature.  The group C streptococci include the large colony of Voges-Proskauer-negative bacteria (Streptococcus equi, Streptococcus equisimilis, Streptococcus zooepidemicus, and Streptococcus dysgalactiae) as well as as the minute colony of Voges-Proskauer-positive Streptococcus anginosus ("Streptococcus milleri") group C organisms.  Any joint may become infected, but joints affected by preexisting rheumatologic abnormalities are more frequently involved.  Bacteremia was documented in five of the 10 patients.  One patient had an associated pneumonia, and another patient had an associated acute aortic valve endocarditis.  None of the infections involved a prosthetic joint or an overlying cellulitis, associations reported for group G streptococcal arthritis.  Surgical drainage of the infected joint was required in six of the 10 patients.  We concluded that the presence of two groups of organisms sharing the same Lancefield group antigen necessitates the careful identification of isolates to determine potential clinical differences.
Brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula.  A case of brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula was presented and 52 reported cases were reviewed.  The brain abscess was successfully treated with repeated aspiration and drainage, and the pulmonary arteriovenous fistula, located in the right lower lobe, was resected.  The arteriovenous fistula occurs as a common pulmonary manifestation of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia; however, no symptoms suggesting these two were noted in this case.  Brain abscesses can be an initial clinical manifestation in asymptomatic pulmonary arteriovenous fistula.  This possible association should be borne in mind in cases of brain abscesses of unexplained etiology.
Comparison of cilofungin and amphotericin B for therapy of murine candidiasis.  We compared the efficacies of cilofungin and amphotericin B treatment in a murine model of disseminated candidiasis.  Three different dosages of each drug plus controls were evaluated.  Statistically improved survival was noted only among mice treated with 1 mg of amphotericin B per kg of body weight (P less than 0.05).  While all amphotericin B regimens and the two lower-dosage cilofungin regimens significantly reduced yeast cell counts in kidneys compared with the controls, the amphotericin B-treated mice had a significantly higher percentage of sterile kidneys following therapy compared with those treated with cilofungin (P = 0.0001).
Monoclonal antibody to mouse lipopolysaccharide receptor protects mice against the lethal effects of endotoxin.  Specific endotoxic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) binding sites on the cell membranes of murine lymphocytes and macrophages that may serve as functional receptors for LPS have recently been identified using photoactivatable cross-linking LPS derivatives.  A monoclonal antibody (Mab 5D3) with specificity for this 80-kDa protein has also been generated and characterized.  The capacity of MAb 5D3 to protect mice against the lethal effects of endotoxin was investigated.  Pretreatment of CF1 mice with as little as 15 micrograms of MAb 5D3 provided virtually complete protection against a dose of endotoxin 10-fold greater than that required to kill all mice in an untreated control group using the galactosamine sensitization model.  Significant protection was also afforded normal mice given MAb 5D3 relative to saline.  Several lines of evidence suggest that MAb 5D3-mediated protection is due to the agonist properties of this antibody rather than a receptor blockade mechanism.
Left ventricular pseudoaneurysm complicating mitral valve replacement in a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis.  A 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis required mitral valve replacement.  A left ventricular pseudoaneurysm developed following surgery.  The etiology and diagnosis of this complication are discussed.
Isolation of HIV-1 from the blood of seropositive adults: patient stage of illness and sample inoculum size are major determinants of a positive culture. The Walter Reed Retroviral Research Group.  Results of HIV-1 blood cultures from 609 seropositive adults across all stages of illness at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center were reviewed.  HIV-1 was isolated by coculturing of patient peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes (PBMCs) with normal blood donor target PBMCs that had been stimulated with phytohemagglutinin and interleukin-2.  The HIV-1 isolation success rate at Walter Reed increased progressively each year from 1986 to 1989.  In 1989, HIV-1 was isolated from a single blood specimen from patients in Walter Reed stages 1-2, 3-4, and 5-6 in 75% (49/65), 90% (37/41), and 97% (30/31) of cases, respectively.  None of 22 blinded negative control specimens was positive.  PBMC cultures from late stage patients regularly became positive within 7 days (92%), compared to only 46% of positive cultures from early stage patients.  For most patients, the lowest number of serially diluted PBMCs that resulted in a positive culture was 30,000 patient PBMCs, but the range was 300 to 3 million cells.  HIV-1 was isolated less frequently from plasma (5/18, 28%).  Plasma viremia was detected only in patients with relatively high titers of infected PBMCs.  Forty-six blood specimens from "at-risk" seronegative adults were also cocultured; none was positive.
Sexually transmitted causes of gastrointestinal symptoms in homosexual men.  The possible etiologic agents that may cause gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men are multiple, and their diagnosis is complex.  This article presents a logical approach to the work-up and diagnosis of gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men and to discuss their treatment and disease intervention.
Oral contraceptives and myocardial infarction.  The risk of myocardial infarction in contraceptive users is limited to women over 35 years of age who smoke.  The cause of myocardial infarction in oral contraceptive users is thrombotic and not atherosclerotic.  Minor lipid changes have no clinical relevance to myocardial infarction in contraceptive pill users and do not appear to increase coronary plaques.
Resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation.  A 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ARDS.  Subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ARDS.
Clinically inapparent (asymptomatic) bacteriuria in ambulatory elderly men: epidemiological, clinical, and microbiological findings.  In a prospective longitudinal study, ambulatory elderly men were followed from 1 to 4.5 years to gain insight into the prevalence rates, clinical characteristics, and patterns of clinically inapparent (asymptomatic) bacteriuria (CIB).  The prevalence of CIB was 12% (29/238) and increases with age.  Unlike the gram-negative organisms that cause overt urinary tract infection in this age group, gram-positive organisms dominated the CIB group.  Both the CIB and abacteriuric patients have multiple chronic medical conditions and are indistinguishable on that basis.  Twenty-nine elderly men with bacteriuria and 105 abacteriuric subjects were followed with serial urine cultures.  During the study period the bacteriuric subjects exhibited spontaneous temporary or permanent resolution (76%, 22/29), intermittency (21%, 6/29), and probable bacterial persistence (38%, 11/29).  No consistent pattern of bacteriuria was evident.  Therefore, antimicrobial therapy is not warranted in the treatment of asymptomatic or clinically inapparent bacteriuria in ambulatory elderly men.
Occult fatal pulmonary embolism with disseminated intravascular coagulation. An unusual case masquerading as miliary tuberculosis.  We report a fatal case of occult pulmonary embolism complicating bronchogenic carcinoma which presented with rapidly progressive pulmonary miliary shadows and respiratory failure.  A clotting profile abnormality compatible with disseminated intravascular coagulation was noted.  Postmortem examination showed extensive clots occluding the major pulmonary vessels and areas of pulmonary infarcts.  Histologic examination revealed fibrin deposition in the microvasculature compatible with DIC.  Cases of pulmonary embolism with DIC have previously been reported, but this is the first case with pathologic confirmation.  Thus, unusual presentation with diffuse lung shadow and DIC should not deter the clinician from correct diagnosis so that appropriate treatment can be promptly started.
Nosocomial bacteremias in measles.  The purpose of this study was to determine whether nosocomial bacteremias occurred more frequently in patients admitted with severe measles compared with general pediatric admissions.  In a retrospective survey of 977 blood culture reports during a 4-year period, 1985 to 1988, the incidence of nosocomial bacteremias in patients with measles was found to be on the average of 3.37/100 admissions/year, approximately 6 times that of general pediatric patients (0.57).  Gram-negative organisms (predominantly Klebsiella and Salmonella species) accounted for 86.5% of all isolates from measles patients, with 23% of these being multiply antibiotic-resistant.  All the isolates from the general patients were fully susceptible to antibiotics.  The duration of hospitalization was more than doubled in both groups of affected patients.  The onset of hospital-acquired bacteremias occurred on an average of 11.2 days after admission in the patients with measles and 20.5 days in the general patients.  Our findings revealed that nosocomial bacteremias occurred with greater frequency in patients with measles and contributed to the morbidity of these patients.
Oral histoplasmosis as a presenting disease in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [published erratum appears in Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol 1991 Jan;71(1):76]  A 43-year-old homosexual man visited his dentist with painful, nodular, ulcerated lesions on the soft palate, right buccal mucosa, and right posterior maxillary gingiva.  Serologic studies for exposure to human immunodeficiency virus, performed before biopsy, were positive.  Biopsy of the maxillary gingiva demonstrated sheets of histiocytes containing small intracellular yeasts, which on culture were identified as Histoplasma capsulatum.  Bilateral leukoplakic lesions with some vertical furrowing involving the lateral borders of the tongue were also noted.  Histologically, hyperkeratosis and fungal hyphae were identified.  The patient was treated for histoplasmosis with amphotericin B, which resulted in significant improvement of the oral lesions.  He was subsequently hospitalized for fatigue and dyspnea and was found to have Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.  Pulmonary status deteriorated within a 3-week period, and the patient died.  Autopsy findings were negative for histoplasmosis but positive for necrotizing and cavitary P.  carinii pneumonia, pulmonary and hepatic herpes simplex infections, and pulmonary and intestinal cytomegalovirus infection.
Denatured muscle grafts for nerve repair. An experimental model of nerve damage in leprosy   About 20% of patients with leprosy develop localised granulomatous lesions in peripheral nerves.  We report experiments in guinea-pigs in which freeze-thawed autogenous muscle grafts were used for the treatment of such mycobacterial granulomas.  Granulomas were induced in guinea-pig tibial nerves and the animals were left for 7 to 100 days in order to assess maximal damage.  The local area of nerve damage was then excised and the gap filled with denatured muscle grafts.  Clinical assessment after periods up to 150 days showed good sensory and motor recovery which correlated well with the histological findings.  The muscle graft technique may be of value for the treatment of chronic nerve lesions in selected cases of leprosy.
Does survival depend on the amount of autotransplanted splenic tissue?  Susceptibility to Streptococcus pneumoniae infection was studied in 11 groups of rats allocated to sham operation, splenectomy, or splenic autotransplantation of 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90% of the removed spleen.  Three months later, all rats were exposed intravenously to type 1 Streptococcus pneumoniae (median lethal dose, LD50, for control group).  Survivors were killed 13 days after the bacterial challenge.  Autopsy showed that more splenic tissue was recovered in rats that received less than 50% splenic tissue compared with those that received 50% or more.  More survivors were found among sham-operated rats (47.5%; 95% confidence intervals, 32 to 68) and rats that had 40% splenic tissue implanted (35%; confidence interval, 20 to 54) or those that were found to have regenerated 40% splenic tissue.  We conclude that 40% of the spleen should be autotransplanted to protect the rat optimally against infection after splenectomy.
Antenatal microbiologic and maternal risk factors associated with prematurity.  In a prospective study of 202 women (gestational age 24 +/- 4 weeks), we evaluated possible influences of lower genital tract infection or bacterial conditions on obstetric outcomes, including preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of membranes, and preterm birth.  The presence of bacterial vaginosis (18.7%) was associated with an increased risk of preterm labor (relative risk, 2.6; 95% confidence interval, 1.08 to 6.46).  For women with bacterial vaginosis who also had Mobiluncus species morphotypes identified on Gram stain, the relative risk of preterm labor was 3.8 (95% confidence interval, 1.32 to 11.5).  Presence of vaginal Mycoplasma hominis (10.8% of patients) was associated with both preterm labor (relative risk, 1.8; 95% confidence interval, 0.77 to 4.4) and preterm birth (relative risk, 5.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.45 to 17.9).  Recovery of Staphylococcus aureus (3.0%) was associated with preterm labor (relative risk, 3.1; 95% confidence interval 1.12 to 8.7).  Identification of two or more bacterial-linked abnormalities was also associated with preterm labor (relative risk, 3.3; 95% confidence interval, 1.44 to 7.58).  An increased level of vaginal wash protease (greater than or equal to 10 trypsin units) (16%) was associated with preterm labor and was noted in 50% of women with preterm premature rupture of membranes.  A history of prior preterm birth was the single best historical predictor of both preterm labor (relative risk, 3.6; 95% confidence interval, 1.92 to 6.83) and preterm birth (relative risk, 6.7; 95% confidence interval, 2.2 to 20.4).  History of three or more abortions, antenatal urinary tract infection, and occurrence of medical complications during pregnancy also correlated with increased risk of preterm labor.  These findings affirm and refine associations of various maternal reproductive tract infections with preterm labor, premature rupture of membranes, and birth, allowing for controlled treatment trials aimed at prevention of preterm birth.
A newly recognized fastidious gram-negative pathogen as a cause of fever and bacteremia   BACKGROUND.  We identified a motile, curved, gram-negative bacillus as the cause of persistent fever and bacteremia in two patients with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection.  The same organism was subsequently recovered from a bone marrow-transplant recipient with septicemia and from two immunocompetent persons with week-long febrile illnesses.  All the patients recovered after antimicrobial therapy.  METHODS AND RESULTS.  Primary cultures of blood processed by centrifugation after blood-cell lysis yielded adherent, white, iridescent, morphologically heterogeneous colonies in 5 to 15 days.  Subcultures grew in four days on chocolate, charcoal-yeast extract, or blood agar.  The organisms stained weakly with safranin and were not acid-fast.  Fluorescent-antibody tests for legionella and francisella were negative.  Biochemical reactivity was minimal and difficult to ascertain.  Agar-dilution testing revealed in vitro susceptibility to most antimicrobial agents tested.  The cellular fatty acid composition of the isolates was similar, resembling that of Rochalimaea quintana or brucella species, but not Helicobacter pylori or species of campylobacter or legionella.  As resolved by gel electrophoresis, cell-membrane preparations of all isolates contained similar proteins, with patterns that differed from that of R.  quintana.  Patterns of digestion of DNA from all isolates by EcoRV restriction endonuclease were virtually identical and also differed from that of R.  quintana.  On immunodiffusion, serum from one convalescent patient produced a line of identity with sonicates of all five isolates.  CONCLUSIONS.  This pathogen may have been unidentified until now because of its slow growth, broad susceptibility to antimicrobial agents, and possible requirement of blood-cell lysis for recovery in culture.  It should be sought as a cause of unexplained fever, especially in persons with defective cell-mediated immunity.
A large outbreak of antibiotic-resistant shigellosis at a mass gathering.  In July 1987, a large outbreak of shigellosis occurred among attendees at a mass gathering in a national forest, the annual Rainbow Family Gathering.  Sanitation in the campsite was poor, allowing widespread transmission of disease, probably by food, water, and person-to-person spread.  The attack rate may have been greater than 50% among the estimated 12,700 attendees.  The outbreak was caused by Shigella sonnei, resistant to ampicillin, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole; the organism was of colicin type 9 and contained a 90-kilobase plasmid not found in non-outbreak-related strains.  The dispersal of the group resulted in nationwide dissemination of the organism, and outbreaks in three states were linked to transmission from attendees at the Gathering.  This outbreak demonstrates the potential for rapid dissemination of disease in such a setting and the necessity for careful planning of mass gatherings.
Increased septic complications with three-drug sequential immunosuppression for cadaver renal transplants.  In 152 renal transplant recipients, the results of immunosuppression with three-drug sequential (Minnesota antilymphocyte globulin, prednisone, azathioprine, and cyclosporine) immunosuppression (n = 107) were compared with those of a two-drug sequential protocol (Minnesota antilymphocyte globulin, prednisone, and cyclosporine) that excluded azathioprine (n = 45).  The study groups were comparable by age, sex, etiology of renal failure, incidence of diabetes, and degree of HLA matching.  Patient survival at 1 year was not significantly different in the two groups (two drug, 93% versus three drug, 86%; p = 0.19).  One-year graft survival was superior in the two-drug group (two drug, 93% versus three drug, 75%; p = 0.02).  Analysis of primary transplants only (n = 116) yielded the same results.  During the first year, the serum creatinine level remained stable in both groups.  As expected, the three-drug therapy group had significantly more bacterial and viral infections.  For low-risk primary cadaveric renal transplants, two-drug sequential immunosuppression is superior.
Clindamycin vs penicillin for anaerobic lung infections. High rate of penicillin failures associated with penicillin-resistant Bacteroides melaninogenicus.  Thirty-seven adult patients with anaerobic lung infections (27 lung abscesses and 10 necrotizing pneumonias) were submitted to transthoracic needle-aspiration and/or bronchoscopic specimen brush cultures before therapy and thereafter in all cases considered to be failures.  Patients were randomly assigned to receive either clindamycin, 600 mg intravenously every 6 hours, or penicillin G, 2 million U every 4 hours for no less than 8 days, until clinical and radiological improvement became apparent.  Treatment was continued orally with clindamycin, 300 mg every 6 hours, or penicillin V, 750 mg every 6 hours, until completing a minimum of 4 weeks.  Ten of the 47 anaerobes initially isolated from the lung (nine Bacteroides melaninogenicus and one Bacteroides capillosus) were resistant to penicillin, but none were resistant to clindamycin.  Five of the nine patients harboring these penicillin-resistant Bacteroides received penicillin, and all failed to respond to therapy.  Overall, eight of the 18 patients in the penicillin group and one of 19 in the clindamycin group failed to respond to therapy.  These drugs were equally well tolerated in both groups.  The presence of penicillin-resistant Bacteroides is a frequent cause of penicillin failure in patients with anaerobic lung infections.  In this setting, clindamycin appears to be the current therapy of choice for initial treatment.
Tampon absorbency, composition and oxygen content and risk of toxic shock syndrome.  Tampon use has been identified as a major risk factor for toxic shock syndrome, although the etiologic role of tampons is not clearly understood.  Two epidemiologic studies conducted to date have reported an association between tampon absorbency and risk of toxic shock syndrome.  This finding is not corroborated by laboratory studies, however, which have suggested that absorbency may be a marker for other characteristics that create an environment conductive to the elaboration of toxic shock syndrome toxin 1.  We used data from the previously reported Tri-state study to estimate simultaneously the effects of tampon oxygen content, absorbency and chemical composition.  Although the data are sparse, oxygen content was more strongly associated with risk of toxic shock syndrome than either absorbency or chemical composition.  The results suggest that it may be possible to develop a highly absorbent tampon that is not associated with a high risk of toxic shock syndrome.
Vancomycin pharmacokinetics in hydrocephalic shunt prophylaxis and relationship to ventricular volume.  Vancomycin pharmacokinetics were determined in 25 patients receiving ventriculoperitoneal shunts for hydrocephalus.  Computed tomography scan-derived ventricular-brain ratio as an expression of hydrocephalus varied between 9.3% and 15.4% (12.9% +/- 1.7%).  One hour prior to surgery each patient received 1 g of vancomycin infused intravenously over 60 minutes.  Samples of cerebrospinal fluid and venous blood were obtained 1 hour later and vancomycin levels assayed by fluorescence polarization immunoassay.  There were 11 females and 14 males, with a mean age of 44.5 +/- 10.3 years and a mean weight of 72.0 +/- 11.4 kg.  All had normal renal function.  Levels of vancomycin in the cerebrospinal fluid at 1 hour ranged from 0.1 to 1.5 micrograms/mL (0.9 +/- 0.3).  Weight did not affect these values (p greater than 0.1).  Simultaneous blood vancomycin levels varied between 9.1 and 38.7 micrograms/mL (22.3 +/- 8.3).  Ventricular volume, expressed as the ventricular-brain ratio, did not correlate with cerebrospinal fluid vancomycin levels (p greater than 0.5).  There was no significant increase in concentrations of vancomycin in CSF as cerebrospinal fluid protein concentration increased, nor when blood vancomycin concentration was greater than 20 mg/dL (therapeutic range) (p greater than 0.1).  No patient had evidence of infection at 6 months follow up.  These results indicate minimal cerebrospinal fluid penetrance of vancomycin when administered systemically 1 hour prior to shunt surgery.  In addition concentrations of vancomycin in cerebrospinal fluid bear no relationship to weight, ventricular volume, meningeal inflammation, or blood levels in the therapeutic range.  The minimum inhibitory concentration of vancomycin for staphylococci is 1.5 to 3.1, and as bactericidal levels of 5 to 8 minimum inhibitory concentration are needed to kill organisms, a combination of both systemic and intraventricular vancomycin may be needed to ensure adequate cerebrospinal fluid and tissue concentration of antibiotic during shunt prophylaxis.
Recurrent seizures in children with Shigella-associated convulsions.  Fifty-five children with Shigella-associated convulsions were followed prospectively to investigate their risk of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile seizures.  The duration of the follow-up period was between 6.9 and 14.1 years (9.7 +/- 3.1 years).  No case of nonfebrile seizures and only 2 cases (3%) of subsequent febrile seizures were observed during this period.  We conclude that although febrile and Shigella-associated convulsions share many clinical features, the natural history of these two conditions seems to be distinctly different.  Shigella-related convulsions are not associated with an increased incidence of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile convulsions.
Use of latex agglutination technique for detecting Legionella pneumophila (serogroup 1) antibodies.  Following the outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in Stafford in 1985, 500 serum samples were submitted to the indirect immunofluorescence antibody test and a latex agglutination.  Latex agglutination using ultrasonically disrupted Legionella pneumophila antigens coupled to latex particles, proved a rapid, simple method for detecting circulating antibodies to L pneumophila in a one minute slide latex agglutination test.  There was good correlation with the indirect immunofluorescence antibody test (IFAT), and the specificity and sensitivity with respect to a diagnostic result were 98.3% and 97.6%, respectively, using a series of well characterised sera.  The latex agglutination test seems well suited as a screening test for presumptive cases of Legionnaires' disease; the latex reagent is easy to prepare and seems to remain stable at 4 degrees C for up to six months.
Continued need for pneumococcal prophylaxis after splenectomy   Two children died from pneumococcal infection five and eight years after splenectomy.  Pneumococcal vaccination had not been given to either child.  When the infection developed both children were not taking prophylactic penicillin.  Vaccination and daily penicillin reduce the incidence of this complication and therefore we strongly recommend that both of these measures are continued indefinitely.
Blood contamination of anaesthetic and related staff   The incidence of skin contamination of anaesthetic and related staff by patient's blood and saliva was studied during 270 anaesthetics in Cardiff hospitals over seven continuous days in October 1989.  A survey was also made of current Hepatitis B immunisation status and glove-wearing habits of 75 anaesthetists.  Blood from 35 (14%) patients caused skin contamination of 65 staff during 46 incidents.  Twenty-eight (61%) of the contamination incidents occurred during vessel cannulation.  Five (8%) of the 65 staff contaminated by blood already had cuts on their hands.  There were nine incidents (4%) of skin contamination by saliva.  Fifty-three (71%) anaesthetists were immunised against Hepatitis B.  Only seven (9%) anaesthetists wear gloves for oral or nasal intubation, six (8%) for insertion of peripheral venous cannulae, 47 (63%) for insertion of arterial lines and 67 (89%) for insertion of central lines.  All anaesthetic and associated staff should wear gloves on a routine basis.
Prevention of nosocomial lung infection in ventilated patients: use of an antimicrobial pharyngeal nonabsorbable paste.  A comparative, prospective study was made of the incidence of infection in the lower airway (purulent tracheobronchitis and pneumonia) in long-term patients who were mechanically ventilated due to respiratory failure of noninfectious origin.  Twenty-eight patients were randomly allocated into a study group (A, n = 13) in which a nonabsorbable paste containing 2% tobramycin, 2% amphotericin B, and 2% polymyxin E was administered locally to decontaminate the oropharynx, and a control group (B, n = 15) in which a paste without antibiotics was also applied to the oropharynx.  We studied the effectiveness of the prophylactic technique in decontaminating the oropharynx and trachea of organisms potentially pathogenic for the respiratory system.  Decontamination was successful in ten of 13 patients in group A vs.  one of 15 patients in group B (p less than .001).  The results demonstrated a lower rate of infection in the lower respiratory tract in the study group (three patients with tracheobronchitis and no pneumonias) than in the control group (three patients with tracheobronchitis and 11 with pneumonia), the difference between both being highly significant (p less than .001).  Two (15%) patients in group B developed sepsis of pulmonary origin.  None of the patients on prophylactic treatment developed this complication.  Although the overall mortality was similar in both groups (group A, 30% vs.  group B, 33%), we believe that infection contributed to a great extent to the death of two of five patients in group B.  We conclude that nosocomial pneumonia, which is a frequent complication in critically ill patients on mechanical ventilation, could be prevented by local application of nonabsorbable antibiotics to the oropharynx.
Toxic shock syndrome associated with use of latex nasal packing.  We treated a previously healthy young man who developed toxic shock syndrome 2 days after elective septoplasty with nonabsorbent latex packing.  This case emphasizes that non-menstrual wound-associated toxic shock syndrome can occur after surgery that does not involve absorbent splinting or packing and should be considered in patients who present within a few days after surgery with fever, sunburnlike rash, hypotension, and multisystem complaints and laboratory abnormalities.
Effect of short-term intermittent antibiotic treatment on growth of Burmese (Myanmar) village children.  To test the hypothesis that subclinical enteric infection (such as bacterial overgrowth), rice malabsorption, and growth faltering are causally linked, a field trial of low-dose, short-term, intermittent antibiotic treatment was carried out in 142 hydrogen-producing (by lactulose breath hydrogen test) Burmese village children aged 6-59 months.  The children were randomly allocated treatment with metronidazole (20 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg daily), amoxycillin (25 mg/kg daily), or placebo given 1 week per month for 6 months.  A cooked rice meal breath hydrogen test was done to classify the children as rice absorbers (RA) or rice malabsorbers (RM) before treatment and monthly on the day before each cycle of treatment.  There were no differences between the treatment groups, so they were considered together.  Factorial analysis showed that antibiotic treatment did not significantly affect the proportion of RM children.  The only significant difference between antibiotic-treated and placebo-treated children's growth was in the subgroup of RM children aged 36-47 months; the antibiotic-treated children had significantly greater linear growth.  In other age groups antibiotic treatment had no effect on growth.
Nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus: correlation with hormonal status in women.  In view of recent observations on hormone-microorganism interactions, a study of Staphylococcus aureus nasal carriage in relation to sex-hormone status was undertaken.  Prospectively in 479 women attending a colpocytologic clinic, hormonal status was assessed by determining the karyopyknotic index (KI) on smears stained by the Papanicolaou method.  Rates of S.  aureus nasal carriage were 29.3% in premenopausal women and 21.9% in postmenopausal women (P not significant).  Carriage rates were significantly higher (P = .026, chi 2 7.32) for women with high KIs (40.7%) than for those with intermediate and low KIs (27.03% and 25.1%, respectively).  S.  aureus nasal carriage also correlated independently and significantly with previous antibiotic use and the presence of insulin-treated diabetes mellitus.  This preliminary observation confirms an association between levels of sex hormones as reflected by the KI and S.  aureus nasal carriage rates.
Splenic septic emboli in endocarditis.  The significance of septic emboli to the spleen is inferred by the frequency of septic emboli in general seen in patients with left-sided infective endocarditis who are referred for valve replacement.  To determine the proper management of splenic infarcts and abscess due to septic emboli, we retrospectively reviewed the records of 108 patients with left-sided endocarditis who underwent valvular surgery at the University of Illinois Hospital from 1980 through 1988.  Intravenous drug abuse was the etiology in 68% (n = 73).  The incidence of splenic infarcts and abscess was 19% (n = 20), but an incidental finding of splenic infarcts was found in 38% (n = 11) of 29 asymptomatic patients who had computed tomograms.  Streptococci and staphylococci were the causative organisms in 85% (n = 17).  Localized findings were absent in 90% of splenic infarcts and abscesses.  Abdominal computed tomograms were diagnostic of the sequelae of splenic septic emboli in 100%.  No patient had intra-abdominal bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass.  Splenectomy was performed in 50% (n = 10) of patients 3-24 days (mean, 11.2 days) after valve replacement.  Indications for splenectomy included persistent sepsis in 60% (n = 6), large (greater than 2 cm) and peripheral lesions in 30% (n = 3), and splenic rupture in 10% (n = 1).  Perioperative mortality of patients who underwent splenectomy was 30% (n = 3).  The following conclusions can be drawn: 1) Splenic septic embolus is common in endocarditis.  2) Abdominal computed tomography should be performed for all patients.
Bioaerosols: prevalence and health effects in the indoor environment.  Assessing the role of bioaerosols in residence-related symptoms involves (1) determining that symptoms are related to the residence by medical examination and careful questioning, (2) connecting reported symptoms with known or hypothesized effects of bioaerosols, (3) examining the residence for bioaerosol risk factors such as overcrowding/poor ventilation, inappropriate outdoor air intrusion, and dampness/standing water, (4) and finally, if no obvious risk factors are present, air sampling.  Air sampling should always be a last resort and should use a reliable volumetric method.  Particulate samplers, such as the Burkard personal spore trap, are inexpensive alternatives to viable particle samplers and will provide data on most organisms implicated in hypersensitivity diseases.  Interpretation of residential bioaerosol sample data requires both qualitative and quantitative comparison with adjacent outdoor air and examination of aerosol changes related to domestic activities.  Recommendations that should lead to a decrease in indoor bioaerosols include the use of air conditioning to allow limitation of outdoor aerosols, prevention of dampness or moisture intrusion, and discouraging the use of humidifying devices other than steam.  Bioaerosol assessment in the workplace is often more complex than for residences.  Because the symptomatic subjects are not in charge of the environment, such situations often lead to difficult employee/management relations and occasionally to litigation.  It is essential that each step in workplace bioaerosol assessment be defensible and that the best possible methods are used.  The approach is similar to the approach used for residences, but on a larger scale.  Symptom assessment must include stress and ergonomic factors.  Air sampling, if this is necessary, must usually be extensive with controls for ventilation rates, occupancy, and spatial variation.
The value of indium 111 leukocyte scanning in the evaluation of painful or infected total knee arthroplasties.  Evaluation of painful total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) for infection can be difficult.  Indium 111 (111In) leukocyte bone scanning provides a minimally invasive technique for evaluation of possible infection.  Thirty-eight patients with a painful TKA who had surgical exploration after 111In leukocyte scanning were reviewed.  The scan had an accuracy of 84%, a sensitivity of 83%, and a specificity of 85%.  The 111In leukocyte scans must be interpreted in conjunction with the clinical evaluation of the patient because they are less accurate for study of TKAs than of total hip arthroplasties.
Buccal cellulitis.  Buccal cellulitis (BC) is an innocuous appearing infection of the cheek that is found in children and has a high incidence of concomitant bacteremia.  Typically, the child is younger than 12 months and has a 2 to 8 hour prodrome of coryza and fever before developing the cellulitis on the cheek.  A purplish hue on the cellulitic region is highly suggestive of Hemophilus influenzae bacteremia.  The differential diagnosis is reviewed.  A complete blood count, blood culture, and cellulitis aspirate culture, should be obtained on all patients with BC.  Meningitis may be present despite the lack of meningeal signs.  A lumbar puncture should be performed on all children at risk for bacteremic BC.  The vast majority of these children are bacteremic and require parenteral antibiotics.  A typical case of BC is presented and its management is reviewed.
Itraconazole in tinea versicolor: a review.  Itraconazole, a new orally active triazole antifungal, has been tested in patients with pityriasis versicolor.  A number of studies have shown that itraconazole is effective for this mild fungal skin disease.  The total dose required for effective treatment is 1000 mg, and it has been given as 200 mg for 5 days or 7 days.  The organisms disappear slowly from the skin, even when dead, and the results should be assessed clinically and mycologically at around 3 to 4 weeks after treatment.  Numerous studies have shown that itraconazole is superior to placebo and as effective as selenium sulfide, clotrimazole, and ciclopirox olamine.  It is also better tolerated by patients than selenium sulfide.
Acute axonal polyneuropathy associated with anti-GM1 antibodies following Campylobacter enteritis.  We report 2 patients with Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) following Campylobacter jejuni enteritis.  Electrophysiologic studies indicated that the predominant process was axonal degeneration of motor nerves, and clinical recovery was poor.  Serum testing by thin-layer chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that the sera from both patients contained high titers of IgG antibody against GM1 ganglioside.  These cases may represent a subgroup of GBS as acute axonal polyneuropathy following C jejuni enteritis associated with anti-GM1 antibodies.
The interrelationship between human immunodeficiency virus infection and other sexually transmitted diseases.  The epidemiology of HIV infection in the United States is changing, with a dramatic reduction in the incidence of new HIV infection in homosexual men over the past decade because of altered sexual practices.  In contrast, heterosexual transmission of HIV is increasing and is disproportionately occurring in inner city racial minorities in association with drug use, populations that are currently experiencing epidemics of previously controlled STDs.  Sexually transmitted diseases, especially genital ulcerative diseases and perhaps C.  trachomatis and T.  vaginalis, facilitate sexual transmission of HIV.  In addition, HIV infection itself appears to increase the severity of certain STDs once they are acquired.  The control of STDs, particularly in those populations that are at high risk for HIV infection, should be of high priority and should be an integral component of AIDS control programs.
Human immunodeficiency virus infection in pregnancy.  Among an estimated 1 million to 1.5 million Americans infected with HIV, about 10 per cent are women.  Moreover, almost 30 per cent of HIV infection among women is acquired through heterosexual activity.  Therefore, the average obstetrician/gynecologist is not sheltered from dealing with HIV.  This article offers guidelines for caring for HIV-infected pregnant women during antepartum, intepartum, and postpartum phases.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping. Case report.  Intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection.  A case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative Aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids.
Protective effects of polyclonal sera and of monoclonal antibodies active to Salmonella minnesota Re595 lipopolysaccharide during experimental endotoxemia.  Mice were passively immunized with sera from blood donors active for rough lipopolysaccharides (LPS), the J5 (Rc chemotype) mutant of Escherichia coli O111:B4, and the Re595 (Re chemotype) mutant of Salmonella minnesota.  All protected the mice against lethal challenge with smooth E.  coli WF96 LPS, E.  coli and Salmonella rough mutant LPS, or free lipid A.  Epitopes recognized by monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) reacting with the LPS of S.  minnesota Re595 or lipid A were localized in the 2-keto-3-deoxy-D-manno-octulosonic acid (KDO) region and on lipid A.  Core-reactive MAbs reacted with their homologous Re LPS and with free lipid A.  One, GL11, cross-reacted with the KDO alone.  MAbs GL6, GL11, L.4, L.6, and L.8 protected the actinomycin D-sensitized mice against the lethal effects of LPS from E.  coli WF96, Salmonella enteritidis, E.  coli J5, S.  minnesota Re595, and free lipid A.  The GL11 antibody was also protective when injected after LPS challenge.  These results indicate that antibodies directed against the core glycolipid of S.  minnesota Re595 LPS may be useful as an additive form of therapy that may enable decreased mortality during gram-negative bacterial sepsis.
Changing epidemiology of group A streptococcal infection in the USA.  To see whether changes in the epidemiology of group A streptococcal disease in the USA have been accompanied by a corresponding change in serotype distribution, epidemiological and M-typing and T-typing data for 5193 strains sent to the Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, between 1972 and 1988 were analysed.  The proportions of M-types 1, 3, and 18 increased significantly during the study period.  These M-types were more likely to be invasive, to cause fatal infection, and to occur in a cluster of infections than were other types.  By contrast, the proportions of M-types 4 and 12 decreased; they were less invasive and were less likely to be found in clusters than were other types.  These data suggest that changes in the epidemiology of group A streptococcal disease may be related to changes in the distribution of M-types causing infection.
Antigen specific serum antibody response to Chlamydia trachomatis in patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease.  Sera from 35 patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) with and without Chlamydia trachomatis confirmed by culture and sera from 19 control patients with neither evidence of pelvic infection nor C trachomatis infection were studied for the presence of serum IgG, IgA, and IgM antibodies to C trachomatis using enzyme immunoassay (EIA) and immunoblotting techniques.  There was no correlation between the antibody concentrations in the EIA and the spread of chlamydial infection, as determined by cervical, endometrial, and laparoscopic sampling for chlamydia.  The immunoblot analysis showed antibodies to the major outer membrane protein (MOMP) of C trachomatis elementary bodies in all patients who had had C trachomatis isolated.  Reactivity was also frequently observed against the 68, 62, 60, 45, and 31 kilodalton antigens.  About 20 antigenic polypeptides were identified.  Differences in antibody prevalence to specific chlamydial antigens, however, were not related to the site of chlamydial isolation or serum antibody concentrations observed with the EIA.  The results indicate that patients with PID with and without upper genital tract infection with C trachomatis cannot be differentiated by reactivity of sera to specific chlamydial polypeptide antigens.  The determination of a specific serum IgA antibody response by EIA was the most effective single test to discriminate between patients with and without acute chlamydial infection.
Value of antigen detection in predicting invasive pulmonary aspergillosis   Two ELISAs were used to detect serum and urinary aspergillus antigen in 121 patients who were profoundly neutropenic after leukaemia therapy or bone marrow transplantation.  The presence of antigen correctly predicted development of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in 16 patients.  In 2 other cases antigen appeared after the clinical diagnosis had been made, while in only 1 case was antigen not detected.  In 11 of 13 episodes of clinically suspected fungal infection antigen was detected before clinical diagnosis was made.  By contrast, antigen was detected in only 1 of 90 patients who had no evidence of IPA.  Both ELISAs gave positive and negative predictive values for IPA of greater than 95%, demonstrating the value of antigen detection in early diagnosis of aspergillus infection and the assay's ability to predict subsequent development of IPA.  We conclude that neutropenic patients should be screened for aspergillus antigen, and propose that initial detection of fungal antigen justifies commencement of empirical antifungal therapy.  Such an approach should improve the survival of patients who are at risk of developing this usually fatal infection.
Low gastric acid as a risk factor for cholera transmission: application of a new non-invasive gastric acid field test.  Although gastric acid is thought to be an important host defense against certain enteric infections, field studies of the role of gastric acid in preventing enteric infections have been hampered by the lack of a suitable non-invasive test.  Because low gastric acid output (GAO) is an established risk factor for cholera, we assessed after validation, whether a new non-invasive test which estimates GAO by measuring breath hydrogen excess after ingestion of magnesium and a stimulant of gastric acid secretion, could discriminate between persons at high and at low risk of developing cholera.  Fifteen age-matched pairs, participants in the field trial of two oral cholera vaccines in rural Bangladesh, were tested.  In each pair the "case" was a person who had recovered from severe cholera at least 6 months before testing and the "control" was a person who resided in the home of a cholera patient but remained uninfected.  The stimulated breath hydrogen was higher in controls (median hydrogen excess = 369 mumol/80 min) than in cases (median hydrogen excess = 150 mumol/80 min) (p less than 0.05) and was higher in controls in 12 out of 15 pairs.  The results, which are consistent with past invasive assessments of the association between hypochlorhydria and cholera, suggest that this non-invasive test may be useful in evaluating GAO in epidemiological field studies.
Sepsis-related cardiogenic shock.  To further define cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with septic shock, serial conventional hemodynamic measurements combined with two-dimensional echocardiographic studies were performed at the bedside in 21 patients admitted for an acute episode of sepsis-related circulatory failure.  Measurements obtained during the first hours of hospitalization revealed a group of six patients (group 1) with markedly depressed left ventricular function, as evidenced by a low cardiac index (CI) (2.2 +/- 0.8 L/min.m2), reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (21 +/- 8%), and an increased arterial-venous oxygen content difference.  Right ventricular systolic function was also severely depressed.  These patients were characterized as having sepsis-related cardiogenic shock secondary to profound myocardial depression, which was reversible within 24 to 48 h with inotropic support.  The 15 remaining patients (group 2) exhibited an initially increased CI (4.9 +/- 1.8 L/min.m2), with a low systemic vascular resistance.  In group 2, LVEF remained within the normal range despite abnormally low peripheral vascular resistance.  This finding would suggest the presence of slight to moderate depression of left ventricular systolic function.  All patients in this series had a normal left ventricular end-diastolic volume, whether profound myocardial depression was present or not.
Manual ventilation bags as a source for bacterial colonization of intubated patients.  A group of 14 intensive care unit (ICU) patients were studied to determine if manual ventilation bags (MVB) could serve as a source of bacterial or fungal pathogens that could colonize the respiratory tract of intubated patients.  A total of 51 cultures were simultaneously obtained of patient's sputum, the exterior MVB surface, MVB port, and MVB interior (postexhalation valve).  Pathogens colonizing or infecting the respiratory tract of intubated ICU patients were frequently simultaneously present on the exterior surface of the MVB and inside the MVB port used to connect the MVB with the endotracheal tube.  In addition, coagulase-negative staphylococci and yeast were frequently present on the exterior surface of the MVB.  The interior of the MVB was usually sterile.  In three instances pathogens were isolated from the MVB before isolation from the patient's sputum.  MVB may serve as a source for colonizing the respiratory tract of intubated ICU patients and/or the hands of medical personnel.  The exterior surface and port of MVB should be cleaned of visible debris and disinfected at least once a day.
Resolution of lung abscess due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa with oral ciprofloxacin: case report.  A case of lung abscess due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa is presented that did not resolve with the use of conventional antipseudomonal antibiotics, including tobramycin with ticarcillin-clavulanate and ceftazidime with gentamicin and ticarcillin-clavulanate.  Oral ciprofloxacin was administered for 12 weeks, and the infection was resolved.  No resistance occurred, and there was no recurrence of abscess within 18 months following therapy.
Antibiotic therapy for common infections.  Several important points regarding the treatment of urinary tract infections should be made.  Single-dose and short-course antibiotic therapy is appropriate only for women with acute bacterial cystitis due to E.  coli.  Studies comparing single-dose to full-course therapy have not been sufficiently designed to draw valid statistical conclusions, and only TMP/SMX is recommended at this time.  Recurrent UTI in women is almost always due to reinfection, which is best managed by prophylactic antibiotics.  Acute bronchitis and acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis are often due to viral infections, and therefore antibiotic therapy is not always needed.  In acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, the clearest success rates for antibiotic therapy have been in patients, who have all three of the following symptoms: increased dyspnea, increased sputum production, and sputum purulence.  Mupirocin is an important addition to the agents used to treat bacterial skin infections due to streptococcal and staphylococcal strains.  In impetigo, mupirocin has been demonstrated to be as effective or superior to oral erythromycin.  In prostatitis, data on the fluoroquinolones appears impressive, but further comparative trials are needed.  They may become first-line, empiric therapy.  The newer oral antibiotics are not recommended as initial, empiric therapy in the outpatient management of common infections, with the possible exception of the treatment of prostatitis.  These newer agents may be more important in the treatment of recurrent or resistant infections.
Antibiotic compared with antiseptic prophylaxis for prostatic surgery.  Two different regimens of cephalosporin antibiotic prophylaxis were compared with antiseptic lubricating jelly to try to prevent infection and complications in 196 men after prostatic surgery.  Pre-operative urine was cultured and prostatic chips (170 cases) were also cultured to define the source of any infection.  The use of antibiotics was associated with a reduced risk of postoperative bacteriuria.  No serious complications occurred, although 1 patient in the antiseptic treated group developed rigors; 79 of 170 patients (46%) had positive prostatic chip cultures, of whom 74 had sterile pre-operative urine.  There was no association between the result of chip culture and the presence of a pre-operative catheter.  Culture positive patients had an increased risk of post-operative urine infection, although the same organism was found in the prostate and urine in only 36% of cases of post-operative bacteriuria and in 43 (54%) the organism cultured from the prostate was Staphylococcus albus.  This study provides further evidence of the benefit of true prophylactic antibiotic therapy for transurethral prostatic surgery and the prostatic chip data suggest that some of the risk is due to pre-operative contamination of the prostate in the absence of per-operative urinary infection or catheterisation.
"Spontaneous sump syndrome": Successful treatment by duodenoscopic sphincterotomy.  "Sump syndrome" is a rare complication of side-to-side choledochoenterostomy operations which develops in the distal, nonfunctioning limb of the common bile duct where lithogenic bile, gastrointestinal contents, and debris accumulate.  We report here a patient who developed spontaneous sump syndrome as a result of the formation of choledochoduodenal fistula, and who presented with multiple pyogenic liver abscesses.  The patient's symptoms and liver abscesses resolved completely after treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy and antibiotics.  This case demonstrates that sump syndrome may occur spontaneously, that it can be a cause for pyogenic liver abscess formation, and that it may be treated effectively by endoscopic sphincterotomy.
The systemic septic response: concepts of pathogenesis.  Following resuscitation from shock, the clinical phase of persistent hypermetabolism is entered from which a substantial number of patients transcend into progressive organ failure and expire.  The available epidemiologic, physiologic, and metabolic data are consistent with the position that a persistent degree of microcirculatory hypoxia, although it may be present in amounts that are below the sensitivity of current detection systems, becomes an increasingly less important etiologic factor as the organ failure disease progresses.  Rather, aerobic metabolism appears to be the dominant mechanism of meeting the increased work loads and energy demands.  There is an increasing body of evidence that cytokine release systemically, and increased cell-cell interaction through cytokines and prostanoids locally, may alter not only parenchymal function in the proximity of these mononuclear cells, but organ function at distant sites.  If this latter hypothesis continues to be substantiated, it implies that the underlying cell and organ dysfunction may indeed be reversible if appropriate counter-regulatory mechanisms could be developed and the appropriate timing of their application understood.
Chronic Lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle.  Expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with Lyme disease.  We report a patient with verified Borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle.  Rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus.  Surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis.  The histological examination showed inflammatory, nonspecific granulation tissue.  The origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the B.  burgdorferi infection.  Signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection.  The clinical, radiological, and biochemical course is documented.  This is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of Lyme disease.
Immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone.  We evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy.  The incidences of infection, seroma, hematoma, and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients (305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction) from Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, Wash, between 1983 and 1989.  Obesity, age (60 years or older), smoking, antibiotics, and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors.  There were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group (48% vs 31%), and specifically, more seromas (30% vs 13%).  In the modified radical mastectomy group, age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection, drainage greater than 30 mL per day (at time of drain removal) with seroma, and smoking with epidermolysis.  In the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group, obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis.  We conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications.
Approach to the patient with genital ulcer disease.  The three major diseases characterized by genital ulcers--genital herpes, syphilis, and chancroid--are common, with genital herpes being most common in industrialized countries and chancroid being most common in developing countries.  One fourth to one half of patients with genital ulcers have no diagnosed cause for their illness despite diagnostic efforts.  The bulk of these cases is probably constituted by one of the three diseases for which diagnostic tests are falsely negative.  There is accumulating evidence that genital ulcers facilitate the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and they may also be markers of high-risk behavior for acquisition of HIV.  Appropriate therapy of patients with genital ulcers (as well as their sexual partners) depends on accurate diagnosis.  Patients with genital ulcers, particularly those with syphilis or chancroid, should be encouraged to undergo testing for HIV infection.
Liver abscess complicating intratumoral ethanol injection therapy for HCC.  We report a patient who developed multiple liver abscesses and sepsis caused by lactobacilli after the percutaneous intratumoral injection of ethanol for hepatocellular carcinoma.  We diagnosed the liver abscess at an early stage because of a the finding of gas on ultrasound and computed tomography.  Blood cultures grew Gram-positive rods, which were of the Lactobacillus species.  The patient responded to the administration of antibiotics, and his hepatic tumors have not recurred in the 7 months since treatment.  This is the first report of liver abscess following percutaneous ethanol injection therapy.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide levels are elevated in patients with sepsis.  Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), an endogenous vasoactive peptide encoded by the calcitonin gene in nerve cells, is distributed throughout the cardiovascular system and is a potent vasodilator.  Plasma levels of CGRP have been elevated in animal models with sepsis.  This study was designed to determine whether plasma CGRP levels are elevated in patients with sepsis and perhaps contribute to the hyperdynamic cardiovascular state in sepsis.  Plasma CGRP levels were obtained from normal healthy volunteers and from patients with sepsis.  Volunteers were afebrile and had normal pulse and blood pressure.  Patients with sepsis were selected according to the following criteria: (1) temperature higher than 38.5 degrees C, (2) white blood count greater than 14,000/ml, (3) positive blood culture of bacterial organisms, (4) hemodynamic parameters consistent with hyperdynamic sepsis, and (5) negative history of thyroid or other endocrine abnormalities.  CGRP was extracted and assayed by radioimmunoassay for iodine 125-labeled human CGRP.  In patients with sepsis, the cardiac index was 5.4 +/- 0.5 L/min/m2 (normal, 3.0); systemic vascular resistance was 7.1 +/- 0.5 mm Hg/L/min (normal, 16); oxygen delivery was 1496 +/- 137 ml/min (normal, 1000).  Plasma CGRP levels were significantly elevated in the patients with sepsis, 14.9 +/- 3.2 pg/ml, compared to plasma CGRP levels in control volunteers, 2.0 +/- 0.3 pg/ml (p less than 0.0005).  These elevated levels of CGRP may contribute to the decreased vascular resistance and increased cardiac output in the hyperdynamic septic state.
Superficial cultures in neonatal sepsis evaluations. Impact on antibiotic decision making.  The authors performed a retrospective analysis of neonatal superficial cultures and their effect on antimicrobial decision making during a nine-month period at Nashville General Hospital.  They obtained and reviewed charts of infants (n = 66) having paired superficial (skin and/or gastric aspirate) and deep (blood and cerebrospinal fluid) cultures for the evaluation of early-onset sepsis.  Superficial cultures were positive for pathogens (any streptococcus or enteric gram-negative) in 15% (10/66) of cases.  Antimicrobial decision making was affected in only one of these cases, and in a seemingly inappropriate manner.  In summary, there was no evidence or review that superficial cultures used in sepsis evaluation influenced physician antimicrobial decision making; in one case they may have led to unnecessary antibiotic exposure.
Tuberculous psoas muscle abscess following chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection.  A 34-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and disseminated Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium intracellulare infection developed a right psoas muscle abscess due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis.  The abscess occurred 18 months after completion of a 12-month course of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid that was given because of a positive reaction with purified protein derivative of tuberculin.  The adjacent vertebrae did not appear to be involved.  The abscess was drained with a percutaneously inserted catheter, and he received standard antituberculous chemotherapy.  Three weeks into therapy, a second drainage with a catheter was required.  The isolation of two mycobacteria in this patient and the apparent failure of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid are noted.
The sequelae of Haemophilus influenzae meningitis in school-age children.  BACKGROUND.  Previous data on the consequences of Haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis for school-age children have been inconsistent, and much of the information on risk factors has been inconclusive.  The present study was designed to evaluate the sequelae of this disease with a protocol for the comprehensive assessment of neuropsychological function.  METHODS.  Ninety-seven school-age children (mean age, 9.6 years), each of whom had a school-age sibling, were recruited from a survey of the medical records of 519 children treated for H.  influenzae type b meningitis between 1972 and 1984 (at a mean age of 17 months) at the children's hospitals of Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal.  Of the 97 children, 41 had had an acute neurologic complication.  Sequelae were assessed by comparing the index children with their nearest siblings on the basis of standardized measures of cognitive, academic, and behavioral status.  RESULTS.  Only 14 children (14 percent) had persisting neurologic sequelae: sensorineural hearing loss in 11 (unilateral in 6 and bilateral in 5), seizure disorder in 2, and hemiplegia and mental retardation in 1.  Although the total sample of index children scored slightly below the siblings in reading ability, the 56 children without acute-phase neurologic complications (58 percent) were indistinguishable from their siblings on all measures.  The differences between the groups were small even for the 41 pairs in which the index child had had an acute neurologic complication (mean full-scale IQ, 102 for the index children vs.  109 for the siblings).  Sequelae were also associated with lower socioeconomic status and a lower ratio of glucose in cerebrospinal fluid to that in blood at the time of the meningitis.  Behavioral problems were more prominent in index boys than index girls and in those who were older at the time of testing, but sex and age were not related to cognitive or academic sequelae.  CONCLUSIONS.  We find a favorable prognosis for the majority of children who are treated for meningitis caused by H.  influenzae type b.
Peritoneal macrophage beta-2 microglobulin production and bacterial peritonitis in CAPD patients.  To evaluate the role of bacterial peritonitis in peritoneal macrophage (PM) Beta-2 Microglobulin (B2M) production, and its relationship with PM Interleukin-1 (IL-1) and Leukotriene B4 (LTB4) release, the authors studied 20 CAPD patients (10 with peritonitis): 1.  in vivo plasma and peritoneal dialysis effluent (PDE) B2M, IL-1, and LTB4 levels; 2.  in vitro B2M, IL-1, and LTB4 release by PM.  Values were compared with those seen in the plasma or with peripheral blood monocytes of 30 hemodialysis (HD) patients (10 treated with Cuprophan [CU]; 10 with Polyacrylonitrile [PAN]; and 10 with Cellulose Acetate [CA]).  Results showed that in CAPD patients with bacterial peritonitis B2M, IL-1 and LTB4 concentrations in the PDE were significantly higher than those seen in CAPD patients without peritonitis, or in the plasma of HD patients treated with PAN or CA, but were similar to those seen in HD patients treated with CU.  At the same time, in vitro PM from CAPD patients with bacterial peritonitis produced more B2M, IL-1, and LTB4, than did PM from CAPD patients without peritonitis, or peripheral blood monocytes from HD patients treated with PAN or CA.  The authors conclude that in CAPD patients, bacterial peritonitis is able to induce PM B2M production, probably via a cytokine mediated process, which may be analogous to what occurs with peripheral blood monocytes of HD patients treated with CU.
Intraamniotic infection in the very early phase of the second trimester.  A total of 157 consecutive patients were studied in an effort to examine prospectively the incidence of asymptomatic intraamniotic infection in the early phase of the second trimester.  All patients were referred for amniotic fluid karyotyping.  In addition, the amniotic fluids were examined for Gram stain and were directly cultured on blood agar and MacConkey agar as well as in thioglycollate broth.  We found positive amniotic fluid cultures in eight cases (5.09%); however, results of Gram stain examinations were negative in all amniotic fluid samples.  The data indicate that there is no correlation between white blood cells in the amniotic fluid and positive amniotic fluid culture results.  Only one pregnancy with positive amniotic fluid culture resulted in a septic abortion.  Therefore we can suggest that intraamniotic infection can exist early in pregnancy, even with intact membranes, and in most cases without any clinical symptoms.
Coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection. A review of 77 patients.  Through a retrospective review, we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during HIV infection.  Patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation: 20 had focal pulmonary disease (Group 1), 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease (Group 2), 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis (Group 3), 9 had meningitis (Group 4), 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement (Group 5), and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection (Group 6).  Coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83% of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed.  Sera from 39% of patients were positive for TP antibodies while 74% had CF antibodies.  Eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease (Group 1 or 2).  Serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar, with 26% positive for immunodiffusion TP antibodies and 79% positive for immunodiffusion CF antibodies.  For the 77 patients in this study, the CD4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 X 10(9) cells/L in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed, and a low CD4 count was significantly associated with mortality (p less than 0.01).  At the time of follow-up, 32 of the 77 patients (42%) had died.  There were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease (Group 2) than in other groups (p less than 0.001).  Amphotericin B, ketoconazole, fluconazole, and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies.  Outcome could not be related to the therapy used.  Of note, 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions.
Outcome after acute osteomyelitis in preterm infants.  Eight cases of skeletal infection in preterm infants were studied.  All the infants were systemically unwell, with polymorpholeucocytosis.  Diagnosis was by blood culture, and any radiographic changes were apparent at the time of presentation.  Infection was often multifocal, with sites around the knee being most commonly affected.  Staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen isolated in six of the eight cases; in these treatment with fusidic acid was effective and well tolerated, even at doses that were less than the recommended therapeutic minimum.  Even with prompt diagnosis and aggressive treatment orthopaedic sequelae are common.
Itraconazole in the management of chronic dermatophytosis.  Fifty-five patients with griseofulvin-unresponsive dermatophytosis caused by Trichophyton rubrum were treated with itraconazole.  They had either tinea corporis or "dry type" infections of the palms, soles, or nails.  The following sites were affected: trunk (12 infections), soles (47), toe webs (52), palms (26), fingernails (29), and toenails (42).  Patients were treated with oral itraconazole until clinical and mycologic remission were achieved.  Response rates and mean times to recovery were as follows: trunk, 100%, 1.5 months; soles, 83%, 6.7 months; toe webs, 90%, 7.2 months; palms, 96%, 4.6 months; fingernails, 90%, 5.4 months; and toenails, 76%, 10.3 months).  In a 6-month follow-up period 7 of 30 patients with toenail infections who had responded to treatment had a clinical and mycologic relapse, usually of one nail.  Side effects were minimal but included abdominal discomfort (three patients), headache (one), and weight gain (two).  No persistent abnormalities in blood biochemistry were seen, even in patients who received itraconazole for more than 9 months.
Fatal disseminated mycobacterial infection following intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin.  We describe a fatal case of disseminated mycobacteriosis after intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin immunotherapy.  We summarize the prior safety record of this therapeutic modality, discuss local and systemic pathophysiological mechanisms by which dissemination might have occurred, and review the reported clinical experience with antituberculous chemotherapy for significant bacillus Calmette-Guerin infection.  Finally, we offer suggestions for prophylaxis of certain patients with a history of exposure to intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin.
Widespread dermatophyte infections that mimic collagen vascular disease.  This article reports the cases of two patients in whom a widespread dermatophyte infection mimicked the cutaneous lesions of their underlying collagen vascular disease.  Griseofulvin may be associated with an increased incidence of adverse cutaneous reactions in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.  One patient with systemic lupus erythematosus developed erythema multiforme after taking griseofulvin.
Antifungal therapy and its use in surgical treatment.  Modern surgery continues to make significant therapeutic advances, and a major component in the adjunctive care allowing these improved procedures is the successful use of broad-spectrum antibacterials.  However, the widespread administration of potent antibacterials and the frequent use of a variety of catheters, along with an increase in the number of immune compromised patients requiring invasive procedures, have allowed deep-seated mycoses to become more common.  Nosocomial fungal infections are frequent, particularly in the urinary tract and in the blood.  This rise in identified fungal infections, along with frequent empiric treatment of suspected infection, has significantly increased amphotericin B therapy in surgical services in the last five years.  While amphotericin B remains the standard for treatment of nosocomial mycoses, other antifungal agents are available (flucytosine, miconazole, ketoconazole and fluconazole).  Despite experience with the older agents and the development of new agents, many questions remain concerning the use of currently available antifungal treatments in postsurgical patients.  The following discussion attempts to summarize the magnitude of the problem, the difficulties with diagnosis and laboratory evaluations, the characteristics of the antifungal agents and particular problems with antifungal treatment in surgery.
An unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot.  A case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of Fallot.  The focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery.  Subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation, and, with no further surgery, the child is well after two and a half years follow-up.
Drug therapy for Helicobacter pylori infection: problems and pitfalls.  Antibacterial chemotherapy against Helicobacter pylori is currently being assessed by open or randomized controlled clinical studies for its efficacy in eradicating this bacterium from the stomach of patients with gastritis or gastroduodenal ulcer.  Whereas there is presently no "optimal" agent and treatment scheme, the combination of some antibiotics (metronidazole, tinidazole, amoxicillin) with bismuth salts proves definitely superior in vivo to either of these agents administered alone.  Several reasons have been proposed, to explain the clinical failure after treatment: insufficient concentration of active drugs in gastric mucus, instability of some agents at an acidic pH, inappropriate formulation of drug, insufficient duration of treatment, and variable compliance of patients.  Recently, it has appeared from several clinical trials that H.  pylori may rapidly acquire resistance to some antibiotics, and that this event might also account for clinical failure.  A critical review of the literature on H.  pylori treatment indicates that association of bismuth and antibiotics or of antibiotics alone both may efficiently reduce the risk of emergence of resistance and improve the therapeutic outcome.  Guidelines of treatment are suggested in order to avoid the future misuse of antibiotics that would increase selection of antibiotic-resistant H.  pylori and negatively affect the ecology of the gastric microflora.  Likewise, an accurate definition of a subset of patients with H.  pylori who really will require treatment needs to be rapidly established.
Ceftazidime/clindamycin versus tobramycin/clindamycin in the treatment of intra-abdominal infections.  In order to assess the efficacy and toxicity of ceftazidime as a substitute for aminoglycosides in the treatment of intra-abdominal sepsis, a prospective randomized trial was conducted.  Ninety-four patients (49% trauma) were randomized to receive ceftazidime/clindamycin (CAZ/C) (n = 47) or tobramycin/clindamycin (T/C) (n = 47).  CAZ (2.0 gm) and C (0.9 gm) were administered intravenously every 8 hours while T dosage was adjusted to maintain peak (5-8 mg/L) and trough (less than 2 mg/L) concentrations.  Age, sex, baseline serum creatinine, and etiology of infection were comparable in the two groups.  Clinical cure was similar in culture-positive and culture-negative patients who received CAZ/C (94% vs 88%).  The clinical cure rate however was significantly lower in the T/C culture positive (73%) than in the culture negative patients (100%) (P = 0.016).  Pathogenic organisms were eradicated in 100% (30/30) and 76% (13/17) of CAZ/C and T/C patients, respectively (P = 0.0006).  Nephrotoxicity Nephrotoxicity or ototoxicity was observed in none of the CAZ/C patients and in one and two T/C patients, respectively.  CAZ/C more effectively eradicated the bacteria isolated from these patients and no significant difference in clinical response was observed in culture-positive patients.  These findings plus the lack of toxicity suggest that CAZ/C is an effective alternative for treatment of IAI.
Pulmonary manifestations of disseminated cryptococcosis in patients with AIDS.  Forty-eight patients with disseminated cryptococcosis and AIDS were retrospectively studied to define the pulmonary manifestations.  Cryptococcus neoformans (CN) was first isolated from a pulmonary site in 12 patients.  Disseminated disease was subsequently documented in all these patients.  Symptoms and roentgenographic manifestations (normal, nodular/circumscribed infiltrates, pleural effusions, lobar consolidation) were diverse.  Interstitial infiltrates predicted the presence of another opportunistic lung infection besides cryptococcosis in five patients (three untreated and two treated patients).  Infectious causes other than cryptococcosis were established by culture and clinical course in five of the ten patients who developed chest roentgenographic abnormalities during amphotericin B therapy.  Endobronchial abnormalities were identified in four patients at bronchoscopy.  Bronchoalveolar lavage (9/9) and pleural fluid (3/3) cultures were sensitive tests for detection of pulmonary involvement with CN.
Surgical presentation of Kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome).  Five patients with Kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain, peripheral arterial aneurysms, digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction.  As the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery, which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent, the recognition of Kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy.
Helicobacter pylori infection in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome.  A controlled study was conducted on patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection referred for upper endoscopy to evaluate the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori (H.  pylori) infection.  Four different stains and culture for H.  pylori were performed on biopsy specimens from the gastric antrum.  Sixteen (40%) of 40 patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex (ARC) were diagnosed to be infected with H.  pylori versus 14 (39%) of 36 age-matched control patients.  Eight of 15 AIDS/ARC patients without AIDS-related esophagogastroduodenal findings (53%) were infected with H.  pylori versus 8/25 (32%) with endoscopic findings typical of AIDS.  No invasion of the lamina propria by H.  pylori was noted in any patient.  Active chronic gastritis was present in 60% of AIDS/ARC patients and 61% of controls.  Fifty-eight and 59%, respectively, of active chronic gastritis cases were infected with H.  pylori.  All the H.  pylori infections, except one, were found in patients with chronic gastritis.  In AIDS/ARC patients, H.  pylori infection and active chronic gastritis are as common as in other patients referred for upper endoscopy.  They may play a pathogenic role, especially when endoscopic AIDS-related findings are lacking.  Cell-mediated immune deficiency does not appear to increase the risk of infection with H.  pylori.
Adult respiratory distress syndrome due to blastomycosis during pregnancy.  A 23-year-old healthy woman in her third trimester of pregnancy developed adult respiratory distress syndrome secondary to Blastomyces dermatitides.  Pregnancy-related immunosuppression was believed to be responsible for the fungal infection.  Following emergency delivery of the infant and a full course of amphotericin B therapy, the patient made an uneventful recovery.  Although the fetal and maternal sides of the placenta demonstrated fungal spores, the child remained healthy.  To our knowledge, this is the first report of blastomycosis-associated adult respiratory distress syndrome occurring during pregnancy.
Itraconazole in common dermatophyte infections of the skin: fixed treatment schedules.  Itraconazole is an effective medication against the most common dermatophytoses.  It has been shown to be more active than griseofulvin and ketoconazole.  Ease of use, affinity for keratinized tissues, lack of toxicity, continued activity after discontinuation, and the possibility of using fixed schedules are advantages of itraconazole.  The fixed schedules indicated by pharmacokinetics and clinical studies are one 100 mg capsule daily for 15 days in cases of tinea corporis and tinea cruris and the same dosage for 30 days in cases of tinea pedis and tinea manuum.  These fixed treatments have some limitations, and they are not recommended for treating tinea capitis and tinea unguium.  The drug is well tolerated.
A rhesus monkey model for sexual transmission of a papillomavirus isolated from a squamous cell carcinoma.  Recently we molecularly cloned and characterized a papillomavirus from a lymph node metastasis of a primary penile carcinoma found in a rhesus monkey; this virus species, rhesus papillomavirus type 1 (RhPV-1), is similar to oncogenic human papillomaviruses (HPVs), such as HPV-16 or HPV-18, in that the RhPV-1 DNA was found to be integrated in the tumor cell DNA.  To compare the sexual transmission and oncogenic nature of RhPV-1 with these HPVs, we undertook an extensive retrospective study of a group of rhesus monkeys whose sexual mating and offspring histories were known.  These animals had mated directly with the index male mentioned above or were secondarily exposed to this virus through intermediate sexual partners.  This study combines cytological, histopathological, and several complementary hybridization and DNA amplification techniques on multiple tissue samples to demonstrate the sexually transmitted nature of RhPV-1.  The oncogenic potential of RhPV-1 is suggested in several of the infected animals by the presence of various degrees of neoplasia including squamous cell cancer of the cervix.
Infection control in the nursing home: the physician's role.  Infection control in the nursing home or long-term care facility is an increasingly complex activity.  The high rates (approximately 15%) and special risks (group activities, crowding) for nosocomial infection demand special attention by attending physicians.  Some specific responsibilities include: recognition of infection; knowledge and use of basic infection control principles; appropriate antibiotic use; review of immunizations; facilitation of communications among office, hospital, and long-term care facility; and involvement with infection control program(s).
Itraconazole in opportunistic mycoses: cryptococcosis and aspergillosis.  Striking results were obtained with oral itraconazole therapy in two opportunistic mycoses.  Of 28 patients with cryptococcal meningitis, 18 achieved complete responses, including 16 of 24 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  Other manifestations of cryptococcosis were similarly responsive.  In aspergillosis 12 of 15 patients responded, including 8 of 10 immunocompromised hosts.  These patients included those with invasive pulmonary disease (4/5), skeletal disease (2/2), pleural disease (1/2), and pericardial, sinus, mastoid, hepatosplenic, or nail disease (1/1).  These results with itraconazole compare favorably to conventional (parenteral) therapy, and toxicity was minimal.  This suggests that comparative trials are now in order.
Epidemiology of Lyme disease in Virginia.  Prior to January 1986, only one case of Lyme disease was reported from Virginia.  In 1986-87, however, the Virginia Department of Health observed an increase in reports of suspected Lyme disease by physicians, despite the fact that Ixodes dammini is not highly prevalent in the Virginia tick population.  Twenty-eight cases of Lyme disease were identified in Virginia, of which eight cases occurred in 1986 and 20 in 1987.  Lyme disease appears to be increasing in frequency in Virginia and moving southward along the Eastern Atlantic Seaboard.
Patterns of bacterial infection in calves implanted with artificial hearts.  Device-related infection is one of the most serious potential consequences of total artificial heart (TAH) implantation.  This complication must be addressed before the full potential benefit of these devices, especially fully implantable devices, can be realized.  A review of research reports and clinical data was conducted to ascertain if similarities existed between the patterns of infection reported in human TAH recipients and those seen in the experimental animal models.  Infection was reported in approximately 57% of the human TAH recipients and approximately 47% of the implanted animals.  Implant periods ranged from 1-620 days for the humans, and 32-287 days for the animals.  The spectrum of organisms isolated from both groups were similar, with a high proportion of infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus epidermidis.  In addition, numerous isolates of Enterobacter and Enterococci were obtained from the animals.  Positive blood cultures have often been observed in animals within 2-4 weeks following implantation of the devices.  The similarities noted in this review suggest that the calf may be an appropriate animal model in which to study the pathogenesis of TAH-related infection.
The process of microbial translocation.  The process of microbial translocation was studied using Candida albicans, Escherichia coli, or endotoxin instilled into Thiry-Vella loops of thermally injured guinea pigs and rats.  Translocation of C.  albicans occurred by direct penetration of enterocytes by a unique process different from classical phagocytosis.  Translocation between enterocytes was not observed.  Internalization was associated with a disturbance of the plasma membrane and brush border, but most internalized organisms were not surrounded by a plasma membrane.  Passage of the candida into the lamina propria appeared to be associated with disruption of the basal membrane with extrusion of cytoplasm of the cell and candida.  Organisms in the lamina propria were commonly phagocytized by macrophages but also were found free in lymphatics and blood vessels.  Translocation of E.  coli and endotoxin also occurred directly through enterocytes rather than between them, but translocated endotoxin diffused through the lamina propria and muscular wall of the bowel wall by passing between rather than through the myocytes.  These descriptive phenomena provide new insight into the role of the enterocyte and intestinal immune cells in the translocation process.
Safety evaluation of PRP-D Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccine in children immunized at 18 months of age and older: follow-up study of 30,000 children.  We evaluated the safety of the PRP-D conjugate Hib vaccine (ProHIBit, Connaught) in 29,309 children vaccinated at 18-60 months of age in the Southern California Kaiser Permanente medical clinics during the period April 1, 1988, to July 31, 1989.  Surveillance for potential reactions involved postcard questionnaires, telephone surveys, reports of Kaiser staff and review of hospitalizations and covered two periods following immunization: (1) the first 48 hours and (2) days 2 through 30.  Surveillance for invasive Hib disease involved the above methods in addition to systematic reviews of laboratory and hospital records through January 31, 1990.  Rates of local and systemic reactions within 48 hours of vaccination with PRP-D alone were low (less than or equal to 2% for fever greater than 102 degrees F, local redness or swelling) and similar to those previously reported after vaccination with PRP.  Hospitalization and seizures (0.15% and 0.09% of vaccinated children, respectively) occurring within 1 month of immunization appeared to be unrelated to vaccination.  One 29-month-old child had onset of a fatal episode of Hib sepsis/meningitis within 48 hours of vaccination.  Also, a 30-month-old child developed Hib meningitis 10 months after PRP-D vaccination.  We conclude that PRP-D is safe when given alone or in combination with other childhood vaccines between 18 and 60 months of age.
Tuberculous meningitis. Short course of chemotherapy.  In March 1986, we began a 6-month short course trial of therapy for tuberculous meningitis, in which 28 patients were analyzed.  The diagnosis was based on the following cerebrospinal fluid test results: in 53.5% of the cases, Mycobacterium tuberculosis was identified by direct smear; in 57%, culture in Lowenstein-Jensen medium was positive; in 83.3%, the detection of anti-bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was positive; and in 74%, the dosification of adenosine deaminase activity was positive.  In addition, in 21.4% of the cases, the diagnosis was established by means of autopsy findings.  Moreover, the diagnosis was supported by bacteriological analyses from another tissue or body fluids.  Despite the administration of an antituberculous therapy, 32.4% of the patients died: all of the decreased had reached the last stage of the disease by the beginning of treatment.  Sixteen percent of the patients who survived after more than 18 months of follow-up after therapy had ended suffered neurological sequelae.  With the 6-month therapeutic regimen, the morbidity/mortality is similar to that found in the longer-course therapies.  The latter regimen is therefore thought to be a good and acceptable therapeutic option for the treatment of tuberculous meningitis.
Skin pigmentation from clofazimine therapy in leprosy patients: a reappraisal.  Skin biopsy specimens from two lepromatous leprosy patients with dark brown pigmentation who were receiving long-term clofazimine therapy were studied.  Ceroid-lipofuscin pigment was demonstrated inside macrophages that contained numerous phagolysosomes.  These contained lipids and clofazimine that appeared as electron-lucent vacuoles and a lipofuscin pigment that was electron dense, granular, and lamellated.  Although the presence of the drug in tissues contributed to the skin pigmentation, the main cause was a drug-induced, reversible ceroid lipofuscinosis.
Perirenal candidial abscess.  Perirenal candidial abscesses are rare, with few well-documented cases in the literature.  We describe a case of a perinephric abscess treated with amphotericin B and nephrectomy.
Chancroid and the role of genital ulcer disease in the spread of human retroviruses.  Chancroid is the most prevalent form of genital ulcer disease in developing countries and is undergoing a resurgence in industrialized countries.  As a result of a nonspecificity of the clinical findings, the etiologic diagnosis of genital ulcer disease requires laboratory support.  Genital ulcer disease is a risk factor for the transmission of human retroviral infections.  An understanding of this interaction is emerging and will impact on the treatment and control programs for the agents causing genital ulcer disease.
A case of unexpected pasteurella multocida bacteremia.  A case of Pasteurella multocida bacteremia in a previously healthy hospital employee is presented.  The patient had sustained a scratch from his dog four days prior to being seen in the emergency department with adequate healing and no evidence of localized infection.  He presented with an acute febrile illness, and was discharged from the emergency department with a diagnosis of viral syndrome.  He was asked to return to the hospital the next day when a bacteriology report of gram negative rods in both aerobic and anaerobic blood culture bottles was received in the emergency department.  Pasteurella multocida bacteremia/septicemia is seen most frequently in immunocompromised patients but the diagnosis should be considered in any patient with a febrile illness and exposure to cats or dogs.
Duplex Doppler examination of a perinephric abscess in a renal transplant.  Perinephric abscess has no characteristic ultrasonic appearance or location.  Differentiation from urinoma, lymphocele, or hematoma depends on clinical and laboratory findings.  Therapy consists of percutaneous catheter drainage, surgical drainage, and antibiotic therapy.  Acute rejection is the most common cause of decreased diastolic flow during the immediate postoperative period.  Acute tubular necrosis does not usually alter blood flow unless it is severe.  Duplex doppler ultrasonic assessment of the renal transplant during the immediate postoperative period may provide a valuable baseline for comparison if complications develop.  Baseline and follow-up ultrasonography to evaluate diastolic flow can help determine whether a posttransplant patient should receive emergency or conservative therapy for complications.
Spectrum of Cryptococcus neoformans infection in 68 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus.  Sixty-eight patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and Cryptococcus neoformans who presented to three major medical centers in New Orleans, Louisiana, were studied retrospectively.  In patients with meningitis the most common presenting symptoms were fever and headache.  Those without central nervous system involvement generally had an isolated pulmonary infection due to C.  neoformans and presented with cough and dyspnea.  CSF parameters were abnormal in 41% of patients, and the India ink preparation was positive in 88% of patients with cultures of CSF positive for C.  neoformans.  The overall median survival time for the 47 patients who died was 5 months, with a range of 0-22 months.  Of the 27 patients who received maintenance therapy with amphotericin B, two (7%) relapsed.  The only factors found to be associated with a poor prognosis were abnormal computed tomography of the head and altered mental status on presentation.  C.  neoformans infections in HIV-infected patients remain difficult to treat and have a poor prognosis.
Sexually transmitted diseases and human immunodeficiency virus infection among women with pelvic inflammatory disease.  Both human immunodeficiency virus infections and pelvic inflammatory diseases are sexually acquired illnesses of great consequence to women.  This study was undertaken to determine if women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease, in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus, were at high risk to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus and if human immunodeficiency virus infections altered their hospital course.  One hundred ten women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease in Brooklyn (in a hospital in which 2% of parturients are human immunodeficiency virus seropositive) agreed to human immunodeficiency virus testing; 15 (13.6%) were found to be seropositive.  Seropositive women were significantly more likely to have an admission white blood cell count less than 10,000/mm3 (p = 0.001).  Human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity was not associated with a higher frequency of other sexually transmitted diseases although there was a trend toward more cases of syphilis among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women.  Similarly, although there was no significant difference in rates of operative intervention (26.6% among seropositive and 8.4% among seronegative; p = 0.058), there was a trend toward more surgery among those who were human immunodeficiency virus infected.  Women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease, in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus, are at high risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection.  More research is needed to verify a trend toward more refractory infections among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women.
Giant basilar aneurysm in the course of subacute bacterial endocarditis.  We describe a man aged 42 years with mitral valve regurgitation who suffered from subacute bacterial endocarditis caused by Streptococcus morbillorum.  The clinical picture began with a toxic syndrome.  Five months later, the patient had an embolic episode and a right rostral pontine stroke, which was followed a few days later by an adversive focal seizure on the right.  Despite antibiotic treatment, he suffered complete third nerve palsy.  Arteriography, magnetic resonance imaging, and computed tomography of the brain showed a giant aneurysm in the rostral end of the basilar artery; the aneurysm was clipped.  We discuss the clinical features, radiology, and characteristics of this aneurysm as a unique case of a giant bacterial aneurysm in the vertebrobasilar system.
Role of surgery in antibiotic-induced pseudomembranous enterocolitis.  With the increased use of prophylactic and broad-spectrum antibiotics, pseudomembranous colitis has emerged as a significant clinical problem.  Management with specific anti-Clostridium difficile therapy (vancomycin or metronidazole) has reduced mortality to less than 2%.  Nevertheless, the disease may progress to a fulminant toxic colitis or colonic perforation.  Additionally, another subset of patients will present with a dramatic clinical picture, suggesting acute peritonitis, eventuating in unnecessary laparotomy.  This report reviews both the medical and surgical literature during the past 15 years of patients treated for pseudomembranous colitis.  Analysis of this clinical data has provided us with the opportunity to both define the role of surgery in this disorder and illustrate the necessity for a combined medical and surgical cooperative approach in the early management of this iatrogenic disease.
Possible role of bacterial siderophores in inflammation. Iron bound to the Pseudomonas siderophore pyochelin can function as a hydroxyl radical catalyst.  Tissue injury has been linked to neutrophil associated hydroxyl radical (.OH) generation, a process that requires an exogenous transition metal catalyst such as iron.  In vivo most iron is bound in a noncatalytic form.  To obtain iron required for growth, many bacteria secrete iron chelators (siderophores).  Since Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections are associated with considerable tissue destruction, we examined whether iron bound to the Pseudomonas siderophores pyochelin (PCH) and pyoverdin (PVD) could act as .OH catalysts.  Purified PCH and PVD were iron loaded (Fe-PCH, Fe-PVD) and added to a hypoxanthine/xanthine oxidase superoxide- (.O2-) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-generating system.  Evidence for .OH generation was then sought using two different spin-trapping agents (5.5 dimethyl-pyrroline-1-oxide or N-t-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone), as well as the deoxyribose oxidation assay.  Regardless of methodology, .OH generation was detected in the presence of Fe-PCH but not Fe-PVD.  Inhibition of the process by catalase and/or SOD suggested .OH formation with Fe-PCH occurred via the Haber-Weiss reaction.  Similar results were obtained when stimulated neutrophils were used as the source of .O2- and H2O2.  Addition of Fe-PCH but not Fe-PVD to stimulated neutrophils yielded .OH as detected by the above assay systems.  Since PCH and PVD bind ferric (Fe3+) but not ferrous (Fe2+) iron, .OH catalysis with Fe-PCH would likely involve .O2(-)-mediated reduction of Fe3+ to Fe2+ with subsequent release of "free" Fe2+.  This was confirmed by measuring formation of the Fe2(+)-ferrozine complex after exposure of Fe-PCH, but not Fe-PVD, to enzymatically generated .O2-.  These data show that Fe-PCH, but not Fe-PVD, is capable of catalyzing generation of .OH.  Such a process could represent as yet another mechanism of tissue injury at sites of infection with P.  aeruginosa.
Development and potential use of antibody directed against lipopolysaccharide for the treatment of gram-negative bacterial sepsis.  Gram-negative bacterial sepsis remains a major cause of lethality in hospitalized patients, despite routine therapy consisting of antimicrobial agents, hemodynamic monitoring and fluid resuscitation, and metabolic support.  Because a large body of evidence supports the concept that Gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide (endotoxin, LPS) is responsible for many of the direct and host mediator-induced deleterious effects, recent work has been centered on the development and use of anti-LPS antibody preparations in order to ameliorate lethality.  Both polyclonal and monoclonal antibody preparations directed against the common deep core/lipid A region of LPS are cross-reactive in vitro and cross-protective in vivo against a wide range of challenge organisms and LPS, and preliminary clinical trials indicate that a reduction in lethality may be possible.  The precise endotoxin epitope against which antibody should be directed in order to maximize protection, however, has not been established.  This modality most probably will become a standard form of adjunctive therapy within the next several years for the treatment of Gram-negative bacterial sepsis.
Activities of clarithromycin, sulfisoxazole, and rifabutin against Mycobacterium avium complex multiplication within human macrophages.  The activities of clarithromycin, sulfisoxazole, and rifabutin against three virulent strains of Mycobacterium avium complex isolated from patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were evaluated in a model of intracellular infection.  Human monocyte-derived macrophages were infected at day 6 of culture with M.  avium complex.  Intracellular bacteria were counted 60 min after inoculation.  Extra- and intracellular bacteria were counted at days 4 and 7 after inoculation.  The concentrations used were 4 micrograms of clarithromycin per ml (MICs for the three strains, 4, 4, and 4 micrograms/ml), 50 micrograms of sulfisoxazole per ml (MICs, 50, 25, and 25 micrograms/ml), and 0.5 micrograms of rifabutin per ml (MICs, 2, 0.5, and 0.5 micrograms/ml).  Compared with controls, clarithromycin and rifabutin slowed the intracellular replication of the three strains (at day 7 after inoculation, P was less than 0.01 for the first strain and less than 0.001 for the two others).  Sulfisoxazole was ineffective against the three strains.  Clarithromycin was as effective as rifabutin.  Clarithromycin plus rifabutin was as effective as each single agent.  Clarithromycin plus sulfisoxazole was as effective as clarithromycin alone.
Helicobacter pylori infection: a simplified diagnostic approach.  We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic finding of nodular antritis and rapid urease test (RUT) in order to simplify the approach to the diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori (H.  pylori) infection.  Forty-four consecutive patients (mean age 7.9 yr, range 6-13 yr) referred because of recurrent abdominal pain as the main symptom, were prospectively investigated for the presence of H.  pylori.  H.  pylori positivity or negativity was defined as the concordance of two of the following tests: RUT, microbiologic culture, and histologic examination on bioptic samples.  RUT sensitivity was 100%, whereas specificity was 87.5%.  The presence of nodular antritis had a sensitivity of 96.4% and specificity of 87.5% in H.  pylori infection diagnosis.  The predictivity value of combined RUT and nodular antritis, whether positive or negative, was 100%.  Only in case of discordance do we suggest the utilization of other expensive tools for diagnosis of H.  pylori infection.
Neonatal osteomyelitis.  Thirty-four neonates with osteomyelitis were reviewed.  The hip (19) was the most common site involved.  Swelling and pseudoparalysis were the most significant local signs.  Radiographic abnormalities, such as metaphyseal rarefaction and/or joint subluxation were found on the initial radiographs in 18 of the 19 hips involved.  All patients were treated with antibiotics and all infections involving joints were drained surgically.  Good results were achieved in 75% of all sites and in 68% of hips.
Fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin administration for bladder cancer.  Intravesical administration of bacillus Calmette-Guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer.  Complications from bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur.  Five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus Calmette-Guerin sepsis.  One man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 C.  Two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death.  Sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid, rifampin and streptomycin.  Two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment.  Triple antituberculous antibiotics, including cycloserine, may be lifesaving.  Sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium.  Bacillus Calmette-Guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization.
Pelvic inflammatory disease.  The costs of PID to both individuals and society are enormous.  Although primary prevention of PID through control of lower genital tract infections is the most effective prevention strategy, early diagnosis and treatment of acute PID may minimize some of its serious sequelae.  Although laparoscopy is helpful for establishing the diagnosis of salpingitis, other less invasive tests along with selected clinical criteria may also be useful.  Treatment of PID, which is empiric and broad spectrum, is oriented toward polymicrobial PID.  Whenever possible, women with PID should be hospitalized for parenteral therapy.  The 1989 CDC STD treatment guidelines recommend two regimens for inpatient parenteral therapy: clindamycin/gentamicin and cefoxitin, or equivalent cephalosporin/doxycycline.  Outpatient management of PID should be monitored closely; the CDC-recommended regimen includes use of intramuscular cephalosporins and oral doxycycline.  Oral penicillins are no longer recommended.
HIV seroprevalence among male IVDUs in Houston, Texas.  HIV seroprevalence was 8.4 percent in a sample of 921 heterosexual male intravenous drug users in Houston, Texas who were not in drug treatment at the time of the study.  Males who were Black, injected drugs daily, or had a history of syphilis had greater odds of being HIV positive than participants without those characteristics.
Immunogenicity of Haemophilus b conjugate vaccine (meningococcal protein conjugate) in children with prior invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b disease.  Children younger than 2 years of age with previous invasive Haemophilus influenzae (Hib) type b disease may not develop protective antibodies to antigens of Hib and may be at risk of developing a second episode of Hib disease.  Twenty-three children with prior Hib disease were immunized with Haemophilus b conjugate vaccine (meningococcal protein conjugate).  Children 12 to 24 months of age were given one dose of vaccine and children younger than 12 months of age were given 2 doses 2 months apart.  Antibody to the polysaccharide capsule of Hib (PRP) was measured by radioimmunoassay.  Eighteen children had preimmunization serum antibody concentrations less than 0.150 micrograms/ml.  All 18 children responded with greater than 0.150 micrograms/ml of antibody after a single dose of vaccine.  Only 1 of the 23 children had a preimmunization serum antibody concentration greater than 1.000 micrograms/ml.  Seventeen children ultimately responded with greater than 1.000 micrograms/ml of antibody (P less than 0.0001), concentrations of antibody thought to correlate with protection.  Haemophilus b conjugate vaccine (meningococcal protein conjugate) is immunogenic in children with invasive Hib disease.  Children younger than 2 years of age with invasive Hib disease should be subsequently immunized with a Hib conjugate vaccine.
Problems of resistant dermatophytes.  Recalcitrant fungal infections are defined as infections that are difficult or impossible to eradicate despite seemingly adequate treatment with appropriate oral or parenteral antibiotics.  Relative or absolute microbial resistance is only one of the many causes of recalcitrance.  Others include failure of the patient to comply with the prescribed treatment regimen, drug degradation in the liver, drug-drug interactions, reabsorption or washout of the drug from the stratum corneum, and failure of the drug to reach the stratum corneum.  Excretion in the eccrine sweat is the principal pathway by which griseofulvin and ketoconazole, the two currently available oral antifungal agents, are delivered to the stratum corneum.  Measures that promote delivery of these drugs to this site by enhancing sweating and minimizing drug run-off and absorption onto clothing may aid in optimizing the therapeutic response to these agents.
Pulmonary and disseminated infection due to Mycobacterium kansasii: a decade of experience.  Fifty-five patients with Mycobacterium kansasii isolates (47 pulmonary and eight disseminated) were identified at a large Texas hospital from 1975 to 1985.  The mean age of patients was 60 years, and there was a slight male predominance.  Isolation of M.  kansasii usually represented disease.  The great majority of patients with pulmonary infection due to M.  kansasii had underlying pulmonary diseases, and 70% had nonpulmonary predisposing factors.  M.  kansasii pulmonary disease clinically and radiographically resembled pulmonary tuberculosis.  Disseminated M.  kansasii infection occurred in severely immunocompromised patients, who frequently had pulmonary predispositions as well.  Disseminated infection most of ten involved the lung, reticuloendothelial system, bone, joint, and skin and presented with signs and symptoms related to these organs.  Despite only moderate in vitro susceptibility of M.  kansasii to routine antituberculous drugs, most patients responded to rifampin-containing regimens.  The prognosis of patients with M.  kansasii disease was determined primarily by their underlying diseases.
Transfusion risks.  Hepatitis remains the most serious transfusion risk, in terms of incidence and severity.  Transfusion-associated AIDS, hemolytic reactions, TRALI, and anaphylaxis are severe problems that occur relatively rarely, while febrile reactions and mild allergic reactions are common but not serious.  The key to avoiding all these complications is autotransfusion (see the article "Autologous Transfusion" in this issue).  Although intraoperative scavenging became available in many centers in the United States in the 1980s, it is hoped that pre-deposit autotransfusion will also become widely utilized in the next decade.
In vitro susceptibility of Xanthomonas (Pseudomonas) maltophilia to newer antimicrobial agents.  The susceptibilities of 45 clinical and 3 environmental isolates of Xanthomonas maltophilia to 14 antimicrobial agents was determined by broth microdilution.  The newer quinolones PD117596, PD117558, PD127391, A-56620, amifloxacin, and fleroxacin were the most active agents tested, with 70 to 99% of isolates being susceptible to these agents.  All isolates were resistant to trospectomycin.  The new aminoglycosides SCH24120 and SCH22591 were active against 12 and 1% of isolates, respectively.
Seven-day administration of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor to newborn rats: modulation of neonatal neutrophilia, myelopoiesis, and group B Streptococcus sepsis.  Single-pulse administration of rhG-colony-stimulating factor (CSF) to neonatal rats was previously demonstrated to induce peripheral neutrophilia and modulate bone marrow (BM) neutrophil storage and proliferative pools (NSP + NPP).  In this study, we investigated the prolonged effects of 7 days of rhG-CSF therapy (5 micrograms/kg/per day).  Sprague-Dawley newborn rats (less than or equal to 24 hours) were injected intraperitoneally (IP) (daily for 7 days) with rhG-CSF or phosphate-buffered saline/human serum albumin (PBS/HSA).  RhG-CSF induced a significant early and late peripheral neutrophilia: 6,905 +/- 1,625 (day 1) and 9,223 +/- 515 microL (day 7) v 1,275 +/- 90/microL (P less than or equal to .0001).  In addition, 7 days of rhG-CSF resulted in a significant increase in the BM NSP: 3,247 +/- 190/microL v 1,677 +/- 339/microL (P less than or equal to .001).  There was, however, no depletion or significant change in the BM NPP.  Seven days of rhG-CSF also induced a mild increase in BM CFU-GM colony formation (P less than or equal to .01).  There was, however, no significant change in liver/spleen CFU-GM colonies or in the CFU-GM proliferative rate in either the BM or liver/spleen cultures.  Finally, 7 days of prophylactic rhG-CSF therapy resulted in a synergistic response with antibiotic therapy and significantly modulated the mortality rate during experimental group B streptococcal sepsis (GBS) (100% v 50%) (GvsC) (P less than or equal to .001).  Pulse rhG-CSF administered at 6 hours or 18 hours after GBS inoculation, however, failed to act synergistically with antibiotics to improve survival or prevent peripheral neutropenia.  This study suggests that 7 days of prophylactic rhG-CSF therapy induces peripheral neutrophilia, myeloid maturation, increases neutrophil BM reserves and also may provide immunologic enhancement of neonatal host defense during experimental GBS in term neonatal rats.
Itraconazole treatment of phaeohyphomycosis.  Nineteen patients with phaeohyphomycosis were treated with itraconazole.  Of these, 17 were assessable for clinical outcome.  Of these, two had received no prior therapy, five had failed amphotericin B therapy, four had failed ketoconazole or miconazole therapy, and five had failed both amphotericin B and azole therapy.  One patient had received only prior surgical intervention.  Fungi of seven different genera caused disease of the skin in nine patients, soft tissue in nine, sinuses in eight, bone in five, joints in two, and lungs in two.  Itraconazole was given in dosages ranging from 50 to 600 mg/day for 1 to 48 months.  Clinical improvement or remission occurred in nine patients.  Two patients have had stabilization of disease.  Six patients failed treatment, one had a relapse after initially successful treatment.  Itraconazole appears to be highly effective in some patients with phaeohyphomycosis, including patients refractory to other antifungal agents.
Neonatal interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor: cord blood levels and cellular production.  In a prospective study, levels of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), interleukin-6) (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) were measured in a blind fashion in cord blood plasma from 92 neonates by specific immunoassays, and were correlated with the clinical courses of the infants, including type of delivery and perinatal complications.  Plasma IL-1 beta concentration was undetectable in infants born by normal vaginal delivery or elective cesarean section but was significantly increased in infants born after induced vaginal deliveries (142 +/- 68 pg/ml) or urgent cesarean section (290 +/- 21 pg/ml; both p less than 0.05 compared with normal deliveries).  The IL-1 beta levels were elevated in infants with severe perinatal complications (282 +/- 116 pg/ml; p less than 0.001), whereas TNF and IL-6 levels were not related to these complications.  Infants with isolated perinatal infectious complications had elevated levels of plasma IL-6 compared with those of sick neonates without infection (p less than 0.001).  In contrast, TNF plasma levels and IL-1 beta production by cord blood leukocytes were decreased in infants with infectious complications alone (both p less than 0.05).  These studies suggest that the levels of IL-1 beta, IL-6, and TNF in the cord plasma relate differentially to clinical complications in the perinatal period.
Job's syndrome: a rare cause of recurrent lung abscess in childhood.  A clinical syndrome characterized by recurrent staphylococcal infection of the skin and respiratory tract from birth was described in 1966 and referred to as Job's syndrome.  Marked hyperimmunoglobulinemia E was later found to be associated with this syndrome.  This article describes a case of Job's syndrome as a cause of recurrent lung abscess during childhood necessitating lung resection.
Percutaneous central venous catheterization. Three years' experience in a neonatal intensive care unit.  Prolonged venous access is desirable in very-low-birth-weight infants and infants for whom feedings are contraindicated.  We prospectively evaluated 481 small-diameter venous catheters placed percutaneously in 317 patients over 3 years.  Of 478 catheters, 241 (50%) were placed in infants weighing 1 kg or less.  Mean catheter stay was 13 days (range, less than 1 to 77 days).  Almost half (49%) of the central and thoracic catheters (91% of placements) were removed nonelectively: 43% due to problems such as leaking or clotting and 6% to suspicion of sepsis or venous occlusion.  Of the 23 episodes of possible sepsis in the 478 catheter stays, six (1.3%) were confirmed catheter-related sepsis; 12 (2.5%) were confirmed alternate locus sepsis.  Three factors specific to percutaneous central venous catheter-related sepsis were prolonged catheter stay (3 to 5 weeks), Staphylococcus epidermidis, and weight less than or equal to 1 kg.  Four factors specific to alternate locus sepsis were presence of an alternate infection site, earlier infection (1 to 2 weeks), extremely low birth weight, and prolonged clinical instability.  Percutaneous central venous catheterizations reduced the need for the stress of repeated venipuncture, resulting in lower complication rates than those reported with surgically placed central venous catheters, and leading to identification of risk factors specific to catheter sepsis and alternate locus sepsis.
Bird attack on milk bottles: possible mode of transmission of Campylobacter jejuni to man   A case-control study was carried out to test the hypothesis that the rise in the rate of Campylobacter jejuni infection in the Brigend area of South Wales during May was due to the consumption or handling of milk from bottles that had been attacked by birds.  32 of 36 cases meeting the case definition were interviewed, along with 2 controls per case, matched for age, sex, and area of residence.  There were strong associations between campylobacter infection and doorstep delivery of milk bottles, a history of milk bottle attack by birds, milk bottle attack by birds during the week before illness, and consumption of milk from attacked bottles during the week before illness.  There was a very strong dose-response relation between frequency of bird attack and illness.  Controls with a history of milk bottle attack by birds were more likely than cases to have taken preventive measures against bird attack and consumption of contaminated milk.  Although few people witnessed the attacks, the likely culprits are magpies (Pica pica) and jackdaws (Corvus monedula).
Sternoclavicular septic arthritis due to haemophilus influenzae.  We have reported a case of septic sternoclavicular arthritis illustrating a rare complication of infection with a relatively common pathogen, Haemophilus influenze.  Early identification of the infecting organism and appropriate antibiotic therapy are essential to prevent further morbidity from the complications of this unusual pyoarthritis.
Newer concepts in antimicrobial therapy.  Advances in the treatment of infection have continued to increase both the length and quality of life.  Unfortunately, many bacteria can readily adapt to their environment and develop a tolerance to the antimicrobial agents in widespread use.  During the recent past, the consumption of cephalosporins has increased so dramatically as to parallel the initial acceptance of penicillin.  Organisms that are resistant to the cephalosporins will no doubt continue to thrive, especially within the susceptible host.  It is essential for the clinician to become familiar with the newest antimicrobial agents to more effectively treat modern infections.
Treatment of chronic moccasin-type tinea pedis with terbinafine: a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.  Terbinafine is an orally and topically active fungicidal drug of the allylamine series.  Its oral efficacy at 125 mg taken twice daily was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in moccasin-type tinea pedis.  The study was conducted simultaneously in two centers and consisted of 41 evaluable cases (23 terbinafine, 18 placebo).  Mycologic cure and near to complete clearing of signs and symptoms were obtained in 59% of the terbinafine-treated patients after 6 weeks of treatment and in 65% at 2 weeks after treatment.  Corresponding efficacy for placebo-treated patients was zero at both evaluations.  Side effects in both groups were minimal.  We conclude that terbinafine is well tolerated and highly effective in moccasin-type tinea pedis.
Positive Lyme serology in subacute bacterial endocarditis. A study of four patients.  Lyme borreliosis is a multisystem inflammatory disorder caused by the tick-borne spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi.  Clinical manifestations are protean, involving the skin, joints, peripheral and central nervous systems, and the heart.  However, the presentation of Lyme disease often overlaps with that of other conditions.  We describe four patients from a region endemic for Lyme disease who had elevated levels of antibodies reactive to B burgdorferi and whose signs and symptoms were initially attributed to Lyme borreliosis but whose subsequent blood cultures established a diagnosis of nonspirochetal subacute bacterial endocarditis.  Although immunoblots on serum samples from three of the four patients were consistent with prior infection from B burgdorferi, a positive immunoblot does not establish active infection.  Similarly, seropositivity to B burgdorferi only indicates possible exposure to this organism.  The occurrence of positive serologies to B burgdorferi in the presence of other diseases can lead to diagnostic confusion.
Pilot trial of selective decontamination for prevention of bacterial infection in an intensive care unit.  Selective decontamination of the oropharynx and gastrointestinal tract with nonabsorbable antimicrobials and sucralfate, a stress ulcer prophylactic that maintains the normal gastric acid bacterial barrier, were compared for prevention of pneumonia in a cardiac surgery intensive care unit.  Over 8 months, 51 patients received selective decontamination and 56 received sucralfate.  The selective decontamination regimen included polymyxin, gentamicin, and nystatin given as an oral paste and as a solution; patients also received standard antacid or histamine2 blocker stress ulcer prophylaxis.  Patients in the selective decontamination group had significantly less colonization of the oropharynx and stomach by gram-negative bacilli (12% vs.  55%, P less than .001), significantly fewer infections due to gram-negative bacilli (6% vs.  20%, P = .02), and fewer infections overall (12% vs.  27%, P = .04).  There was one episode of pneumonia in the selective decontamination group and five in the sucralfate group.  Mortality and length of stay did not differ between the groups, but those receiving selective decontamination had less than one-third as many days of systemic antibiotic therapy with no increase in colonization or infection with resistant gram-negative bacilli.  Thus, selective decontamination appeared to reduce both extrapulmonary and pulmonary infections.
Augmentation mentoplasty using Mersilene mesh.  Many different materials are available for augmentation mentoplasty.  However, the optimal implant material for chin implantation has yet to be found.  During the past several years, a number of experienced surgeons have turned to the use of Mersilene mesh.  Mersilene mesh is a non-absorbable Dacron polyester fiber that can be conformed easily into layers to achieve tailored dimensions and shape.  At the McCollough Plastic Surgery Clinic PA, Birmingham, Ala, 277 patients over a 10-year period underwent chin augmentation with Mersilene mesh implants.  The material provides excellent tensile strength, durability, and surgical adaptability.  The overall complication rate was 3.2% (nine patients); infection rate, 2.5% (seven patients); and removal secondary to infection, 1.7% (five patients).  Based on this 10-year experience, Mersilene mesh remains our material of choice for chin augmentation.
Endophthalmitis due to Sporothrix schenckii after penetrating ocular injury.  A 13-year-old boy developed endophthalmitis from traumatic inoculation of vegetable material penetrating his right eye.  Sporothrix schenckii was morphologically identified from the intraocular fluids.  However, repeated attempts to culture the organism proved negative.  Seventeen sporotrical endophthalmitis cases have so far been reported, and before this report, only one of them was secondary to trauma.  This is the sole eye to our knowledge not only to have escaped enucleation after sporotrical endophthalmitis but to have achieved useful (20/50) vision.
Lack of association between medication use and the presence or absence of bacteriuria in elderly women.  This study was undertaken to determine if there is an association between medication use and the presence or absence of bacteriuria in elderly ambulatory women.  Of 198 women who participated in three urine culture surveys (every 6 months) during the 18-month study period, 66 (34.4%) had bacteriuria on at least one survey.  Both univariate and multivariate analyses for the demographics, age, place of residence, and medication use (by drug class) revealed that only place of residence had a significant association with the presence or absence of bacteriuria.  In this regard, bacteriuric subjects more commonly resided in the nursing home and less commonly lived in the apartment-house complex compared with nonbacteriuric subjects (P less than .05).  Therefore, this study demonstrates that in elderly ambulatory women, medication use does not appear to be associated with the presence or absence of bacteriuria.
Mycobacterium leprae-specific T cells from a tuberculoid leprosy patient suppress HLA-DR3-restricted T cell responses to an immunodominant epitope on 65-kDa hsp of mycobacteria.  The polar tuberculoid type (TT) of leprosy, characterized by high T cell reactivity to Mycobacterium leprae, is associated with HLA-DR3.  Surprisingly, DR3-restricted low T cell responsiveness to M.  leprae was found in HLA-DR3-positive TT leprosy patients.  This low responsiveness was specifically induced by M.  leprae but not by M.  tuberculosis and was seen only in patients and not in healthy controls.  We studied this patient-specific, M.  leprae-induced, DR3-restricted low T cell responsiveness in depth in one representative HLA-DR3-positive TT leprosy patient by using T cell clones.  From this patient two types of T cell clones were obtained: one type was cross-reactive with M.  tuberculosis and recognized an immunodominant epitope (amino acids 3 to 13) on the 65-kDa heat shock protein (hsp) the other type was M.  leprae specific and reacted to a protein other than the 65-kDa one.  To examine whether these M.  leprae-specific T cell clones were responsible for the DR3-restricted low responsiveness to M.  leprae, we tested them for the ability to suppress the proliferation of the DR3-restricted, 65-kDa, hsp-reactive clones.  The DR3-restricted, M.  leprae-specific T cells completely suppressed the proliferative responses of DR3-restricted, cross-reactive T cell clones to the 65-kDa hsp from the same patient as well as from other individuals.  Also, DR3-restricted responses to an irrelevant Ag were suppressed by the M.  leprae-specific T cell clones.  However, no suppression of non-DR3-restricted T cell responses was seen.  Although the mechanism must still be elucidated, this M.  leprae-induced, DR3-restricted immunosuppression may at least partly explain the observed DR3-associated low T cell responsiveness in TT leprosy patients.
Aberrations in post-trauma monocyte (MO) subpopulation: role in septic shock syndrome.  Appearance of increased proportions of monocytes bearing the 72kd(FcRI) receptor for IgG correlated to aberrant monocyte (MO) functions, depressed immune functions, and poor clinical outcome.  The trauma patients' FcRI+ MO subpopulation produced the majority of their elevated IL-6, TNF alpha, TGF beta, and PGE2.  IgG stimulation of patients' MO through FcRI not only stimulated TNF alpha, IL-6, and PGE2 levels, but also greatly augmented the levels of these monokines produced after subsequent bacterial challenge.  Post-trauma increased IL-6 levels can lead to polyclonal B-cell activation and high levels of circulating, nonspecific IgG as seen in trauma patients.  This nonspecific IgG triggers the FcRI on the increased numbers of FcRI+ MO leading to ever-increasing monokine levels.  IL-4 was found to downregulate patients' FcRI+ MO production of mediators.  The cycle of altered cytokine levels, increased FcRI+ MO numbers, elevated IgG, and augmented triggering of FcRI+ MO may be broken by addition of IL-4.
Erythromycin failure with subsequent Pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim.  We report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed Pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin.  Review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures.  We recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections.  Suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed.
How and why aztreonam works.  Aztreonam is the first monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic (monobactam) to be tested clinically.  Its synthetic structure determines specific areas of activity, including enhanced activity against Pseudomonas species, exceptional activity against gram-negative bacteria, stability to beta-lactamases and lack of activity against gram-positive bacteria--all of which can be directly related to its chemical composition.  Aztreonam has a high affinity for the protein-binding protein 3 (PBP-3) of aerobic gram-negative bacteria.  Most of these organisms are inhibited and killed at low concentrations of the drug.  Aztreonam binds poorly to PBP sites of the aerobic gram-positive and anaerobic bacteria and consequently has relatively poor inhibitory effects against these bacteria.  In vitro, minimum inhibition concentration (MIC) values against almost all of the Enterobacteriaceae and against Neisseria and Haemophilus strains are typically below 1 microgram per milliliter.  MIC values against Pseudomonas aeruginosa of 8 micrograms per milliliter are comparable with those of other antipseudomonal beta-lactams and the acylureidopenicillins.  As combination therapy with amino-glycosides, aztreonam acts in synergy against P.  aeruginosa, Acinetobacter and gentamicin-resistant gram-negative rods.  Aztreonam is widely distributed in the body tissues and fluids, and the average elimination half-life is 1.7 hours.  Intramuscular dosing results in peak serum levels in approximately one hour, while intravenous dosing results in peak levels within five minutes.  After a 2 gram dose given intravenously, MIC90 values for most of the Enterobacteriaceae are exceeded for eight hours, and those for P.  aeruginosa, for almost six hours.  The steady-state volume of distribution is approximately 0.18 liter per kilogram.  Concentrations above the MIC90 for most gram-negative bacteria are also present within bone, prostate and cerebrospinal fluid.  Between 60 and 70 per cent of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine, resulting in concentrations approximating 3,000 micrograms per milliliter two hours after a 1 gram dose given intravenously.  Serum clearance of aztreonam is directly proportional to creatinine clearance.  Dosage adjustment must, therefore, be made in the presence of reduced clearance.  Dosing varies between 0.5 and 2.0 grams every six to 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection.  The characteristics of aztreonam suggest that it is a useful nonnephrotoxic drug for treatment of aerobic gram-negative infection.
Evidence for gastric mucosal cell invasion by C. pylori: an ultrastructural study.  It is now generally accepted that Campylobacter pylori is closely associated with peptic ulcer disease and chronic type B gastritis.  Whether C.  pylori is the direct etiologic cause of either or both of these illnesses remains unclear.  Possible pathophysiologic effects of C.  pylori are still a matter of debate and conjecture.  Utilizing a small group of patients with gastric ulcers and chronic gastritis, we examined the ultrastructural relationship between C.  pylori and gastric cells.  Forty-eight percent of our gastric ulcer patients and 57% of our chronic gastritis patients had C.  pylori in their lower corpus mucosa.  Examination with the transmission electron microscope indicated a very close proximation by C.  pylori to the surface epithelial cells strongly suggesting adherence.  We also describe for the first time the invasion of gastric cells by C.  pylori.  Although an uncommon occurrence, we had repeated observations of C.  pylori invading surface epithelial cells, parietal cells, and chief cells.  Most of the intracellular C.  pylori were intact but other forms appearing to be degenerating organisms were also seen.  We suggest that cell invasion may be one mechanism by which C.  pylori causes pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa.  These observations may also explain why C.  pylori chronically infects gastric cells and frequently recurs after treatment.
Association of group C beta-hemolytic streptococci with endemic pharyngitis among college students   Throat cultures were performed throughout 2 school years to determine whether non-group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (NGA BHS) could be isolated more frequently in 232 college students who had symptomatic pharyngitis than from 198 age-matched controls with noninfectious problems.  Duplicate throat swabs were inoculated onto plates that contained sheep blood agar, one plate being incubated in a 5% CO2 atmosphere and the other in an anaerobic environment.  The BHS were grouped using latex agglutination.  Among the NGA BHS, only those from group C were isolated significantly more often among the patients compared with the controls (26% vs 11%).  Quantitative colony counts of isolates of group C BHS were generally higher among patients than controls.  Patients with group C BHS had fever, exudative tonsillitis, and anterior cervical adenopathy significantly more frequently than did patients who had throat cultures that were negative for group C BHS.  Group C BHS were epidemiologically associated with endemic pharyngitis in this college student population.
Accuracy in early prediction of prognosis of patients with septic shock by analysis of simple indices: prospective study.  In 26 consecutive septic shock patients, we analyzed the clinical, hemodynamic, and metabolic data before and during volume infusion to test their circulatory reserve in response to fluid repletion.  These patients were investigated to identify early variables that could predict outcome.  There were 15 survivors (group A) and 11 nonsurvivors (group B).  As a mean, group A patients were hemodynamically evaluated 2.3 h after onset of the sepsis syndrome, whereas group B patients underwent cardiac catheterization after a 12-h interval.  At the initial evaluation, both groups demonstrated similarly decreased mean arterial pressure, mean heart rate, and mean cardiac filling pressure.  Only group A patients evidenced elevated cardiac index (CI) (greater than 4 L/min.m2) associated with low systemic vascular resistance index (less than 7400 dyne.sec/cm5.m2), which is generally recognized as hyperdynamic cardiac state.  However, none of the initial cardiovascular variables could serve as a predictor for survival.  Fluid challenge increased left ventricular preload from 6 to 12.4 and from 7.8 to 12.7 mm Hg in group A and group B, respectively.  The increases were associated with significant increases in CI from 4.4 to 6.9 and from 3 to 3.8 L/min.m2.  However, at the end of fluid challenge, only group A patients exhibited normal cardiac response, as evidenced by the change in left ventricular stroke work index (LVSWI) for a given increase in the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (WP) that was referred to as left cardiac preload.
Garlic-in-oil associated botulism: episode leads to product modification.  In February 1989, three cases of botulism occurred in persons who consumed garlic bread made from a garlic-in-oil product.  Testing of leftover garlic-in-oil showed it to have a pH of 5.7 and to contain high concentrations of Clostridium botulinum organisms and toxin.  This was the second episode of botulism associated with a low acid garlic-in-oil product which needs constant refrigeration.  In response, the Food and Drug Administration has taken steps to prevent a recurrence by requiring that microbial inhibitors or acidifying agents be added to such products.
A randomized, prospective field trial of a conjugate vaccine in the protection of infants and young children against invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b disease   BACKGROUND.  Haemophilus influenzae type b is the leading cause of invasive bacterial disease in young children.  The capsular polysaccharide vaccine does not protect children at greatest risk (those under the age of 18 months), but a polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccine has proved to be more immunogenic in this age group.  METHODS.  We enrolled 114,000 infants in Finland in an open, prospective, randomized trial of a H.  influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide-diphtheria toxoid conjugate vaccine (polyribosylribitol phosphate-diphtheria toxoid [PRP-D]).  Children born on odd-numbered days were vaccinated at the ages of 3, 4, 6, and 14 to 18 months; those born on even-numbered days formed the control group and received the same vaccine at the age of 24 months.  RESULTS.  After three doses of the vaccine there were 4 cases of verified bacteremic H.  influenzae type b disease in the group receiving early vaccination, as compared with 64 cases in the control group, between the ages of approximately 7 and 24 months.  The protective efficacy of the vaccine was thus 94 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 83 to 98).  No serious adverse effects were reported.  The immune response to the conjugate vaccine was characteristic of a T-cell-dependent response when studied in a cohort of 120 infants.  The primary immunization series resulted in a geometric mean concentration of anticapsular antibody of 0.53 micrograms per milliliter at the age of seven months, and the fourth dose evoked an anamnestic response, with a mean antibody concentration of 45.22 micrograms per milliliter.  CONCLUSIONS.  A new conjugate vaccine consisting of the capsular polysaccharide of H.  influenzae type b covalently linked to a protein carrier (PRP-D), administered to infants beginning at the age of 3 months, is highly effective in protecting young Finnish children (7 to 24 months old) against invasive H.  influenzae type b infections.
Emergence of ciprofloxacin resistance in nosocomial methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus isolates. Resistance during ciprofloxacin plus rifampin therapy for methicillin-resistant S aureus colonization.  We initiated a randomized, single-blinded trial of ciprofloxacin plus rifampin vs sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim plus rifampin in the therapy for patients who underwent colonization with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).  Patients who were colonized with MRSA received 2 weeks of either regimen.  The study was terminated after the enrollment of 21 subjects due to the recognition of ciprofloxacin resistance in 10 of 21 new MRSA isolates during the last 2 months of the study.  Five of the 10 patients with ciprofloxacin-resistant MRSA isolates had never received ciprofloxacin.  Long-term (6-month) eradication had been achieved in only three of 11 ciprofloxacin plus rifampin and four of 10 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim plus rifampin recipients.  The use of this new fluoroquinolone for the eradication of MRSA colonization is usually not effective and may risk the development of ciprofloxacin resistance in MRSA within the hospital environment.
Itraconazole therapy for nonmeningeal coccidioidomycosis: clinical and laboratory observations.  Itraconazole, a new oral triazole antifungal agent, was administered in 75 courses to patients with chronic coccidioidomycosis at dosages of 50 to 400 mg/day for a median duration of 10 months.  Assessment of efficacy was made with a standardized scoring system.  Responses were seen in 42 of 58 assessable courses (72%).  Nonresponse occurred exclusively in patients who had failed previous therapy and was most common in pulmonary disease.  Toxicity was minimal at the doses studied.  Pharmacokinetic analysis of itraconazole in serum at steady state showed negligible circadian variation; differences in serum concentrations among patients were large.  Clinical isolates of Coccidioides immitis showed uniform in vitro susceptibility to itraconazole.  Itraconazole shows impressive activity in this series of patients with refractory coccidioidomycosis.  Further evaluation of itraconazole in this and in other systemic mycoses is in order.
Adjuvant antibiotic therapy in duodenal ulcers treated with colloidal bismuth subcitrate.  Persistence of Helicobacter pylori after duodenal ulcer healing is associated with high rates of ulcer relapse.  We compared colloidal bismuth subcitrate alone with CBS combined with one of four antibiotic regimens in the treatment of duodenal ulcers.  Endoscopy and antral biopsies were performed before treatment and four weeks afterwards.  Biopsy specimens were examined for histological evidence of gastritis and by Gram stain and culture for H pylori infection.  Altogether 141 patients were allocated to one of five treatment groups.  Giving CBS and metronidazole (400 mg tid for 7 days) with and without amoxycillin (500 mg tid) achieved higher clearance rates of H pylori than treatment with CBS alone (p less than 0.01).  These two combinations also achieved higher rates of antral gastritis healing than CBS alone (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05 respectively).  Susceptibility to metronidazole was tested in 29 isolates before and in seven isolates after treatment with metronidazole by disc diffusion test and minimum inhibitory concentration assay.  Twenty seven (93%) of the isolates were sensitive before treatment while six of seven (86%) were resistant afterwards.  Four of the six resistant strains had acquired resistance during treatment and one of these had acquired metronidazole resistance despite concomitant treatment with amoxycillin, to which it remained sensitive.  CBS with adjuvant metronidazole at a dose of 400 mg tid for seven days significantly improves the eradication of H pylori compared with CBS alone.  Acquired metronidazole resistance, however, seems to be an important cause of failure to eradicate H pylori.
Comparison of two ascitic fluid culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.  The conventional method of ascitic fluid culture detects bacteria in only 50% of cirrhotic patients with neutrocytic ascites and suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP).  We have prospectively compared two ascites culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis: 1) conventional (on chocolate agar, blood agar, Mac Conkay agar, and thioglycolate broth), and 2) modified [inoculation of 10 ml of ascites in a tryptic soy broth (TSB) blood culture bottle at the patient's bedside].  In a 21-month period, 70 episodes of SBP were diagnosed according to our criteria in 60 cirrhotic patients.  Both culture methods were performed simultaneously.  The conventional grew bacteria in 40 episodes (57%), whereas the modified grew bacteria in 54 episodes (77%), a significantly higher sensitivity (p = 0.0001).  In 16 cases (23%), ascitic culture was negative by both methods.  The mortality rate was higher among patients with culture-positive SBP than those with culture-negative SBP (46% vs 37%), but did not reach statistical significance.  We conclude that ascitic fluid inoculated into a TSB blood culture bottle at the patient's bedside should be used routinely for ascites culture in cirrhotic patients.
Visceral protothecosis mimicking sclerosing cholangitis in an immunocompetent host: successful antifungal therapy.  A healthy 39-year-old man who had clinical findings consistent with sclerosing cholangitis was found to have systemic protothecosis at surgery.  Severe granulomatous inflammation and palpable nodules were found in the gallbladder, on the surface of the liver, and in the duodenum.  Prototheca wickerhamii was detected in biopsied specimens and stool; the titer of indirect fluorescent antibody to this organism was 1:2,000.  The patient recovered after a short course of treatment with amphotericin B and 3 months of oral therapy with ketoconazole.  He had no other concurrent illness and had no abnormality in his immune system.  This is the second reported human case of systemic protothecosis.  An elevated IgG level, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, eosinophilia, and abnormal levels of enzymes in the liver were found in both cases.  Protothecosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of hepatic and biliary inflammatory diseases of uncertain etiology.
Primary meningococcal conjunctivitis: report of 21 patients and review.  Neisseria meningitidis is an uncommon cause of acute bacterial conjunctivitis.  Twenty-one cases of primary meningococcal conjunctivitis (PMC) are reported herein and 63 cases published in the literature since 1899 are reviewed.  In the 84 cases of PMC available for analysis, the male-to-female ratio was 1.76:1; nine of the patients were neonates, 55 were children, and 20 were adults.  Conjunctivitis was unilateral in 66.3% of the patients.  Gram stain of conjunctival exudate disclosed gram-negative diplococci in all cases in which it was done.  Culture of the conjunctival exudate yielded N.  meningitidis in all cases, and 44% of the isolated meningococci belonged to serogroup B.  Ocular complications, which occurred in 15.5% of the patients, most frequently were corneal ulcers.  Systemic meningococcal disease developed in 17.8% of the patients; the overall mortality was 13.3% for patients with PMC complicated by systemic disease.  Development of systemic disease was significantly more frequent in patients receiving only topical therapy than in those treated with systemic therapy (31.71% vs.  2.38%; P = .001).  Gram-negative diplococci observed in conjunctival exudate are an indication for systemic antibiotic therapy because of the risk of systemic complications associated with the use of topical therapy alone.  When properly treated, patients with PMC have a favorable prognosis.
Assessing the risk of occupational acquisition of the human immunodeficiency virus: implications for hospital policy.  In determining infection control policy, it is essential to quantitatively assess the risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) to health care workers and their families.  The risk should be placed in perspective by comparing it with other occupational hazards.  The risk of seroconversion from a needlestick injury can be calculated from the probability of a needlestick occurrence, the probability that the source patient is infected, and the probability of seroconversion, given an exposure.  The risk of seroconversion due to drawing 1000 blood specimens from seropositive patients is between 86 and 470 in 100,000.  The risk to surgeons from performing 25 operations on infected patients is approximately 272 in 100,000.  The risk of fatal injury in the course of one year's work on a Louisiana oil rig is between 188 and 283 per 100,000.
Pregnancy outcomes among mothers infected with human immunodeficiency virus and uninfected control subjects.  Between June 26, 1985, and Feb.  24, 1989, 101 seropositive pregnant women and 129 seronegative pregnant women from the same prenatal clinics in Brooklyn and the Bronx were recruited into a prospective study of human immunodeficiency virus infection in pregnant women and their offspring.  This report details the course of pregnancy and short-term neonatal outcomes of 91 seropositive women and 126 seronegative women who gave birth during the study period.  Seropositive mothers were significantly more likely to have sexually transmitted diseases (17.6% vs 7.1%, p = 0.017) and medical complications (43.0% vs 25%, p = 0.006) during pregnancy.  No other obstetric complications (e.  g., chorioamnionitis, endometritis, toxemia, or placental problems) were associated with serologic status.  After controlling for confounding variables (drug use, tobacco use, age of mother, and clinic), we found that the mother's serologic status was not significantly associated with birth weight, gestational age, head circumference, or Apgar scores among live infants.  For example, after adjustment on confounders we found that children born to seropositive mothers weighed about 7 gm more than children of seronegative mothers (95% confidence interval, -180 to 194 gm).  We conclude that in this population human immunodeficiency virus infection has little demonstrable impact on the status at birth of live neonates.
Acquired childhood aphasia. Outcome 1 year after onset.  The effects of the variables age at onset, cause, severity and bilaterality of lesion, and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children.  Analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia.  The severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans.  Most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset.  Recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories.  Complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases.
Monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites: a variant of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.  Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed when (a) the ascitic fluid culture is positive, (b) the ascitic fluid neutrophil count is greater than or equal to 250 cells/mm3 and (c) there is no evident intraabdominal surgically treatable source for infection.  Few details are available regarding the variant of ascitic fluid infection in which the culture grows bacteria (pure growth of a single type of organism), but the neutrophil count is less than 250 cells/mm3.  In this prospective study of 138 episodes of culture-positive spontaneously infected ascites detected in 105 patients, 44 (31.9%) were episodes of "monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites" compared with 94 (68.1%) episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.  Seventeen patients had both types of infection.  The infection-related mortality and hospitalization mortality were similar between the two groups.  Patients with bacterascites appeared to have less severe liver disease.  In 62% of bacterascites episodes in which a second paracentesis was performed before any treatment the fluid spontaneously became sterile without development of ascitic fluid neutrocytosis.  Thirty-eight percent of patients with bacterascites (who underwent a second paracentesis before treatment was started) progressed to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis--sometimes within a few hours.  The concentration of the chemoattractant C5a was not decreased in the ascitic fluid of the bacterascites patients; this excludes ascitic fluid C5a deficiency as the explanation of the lack of neutrocytosis.  Monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites is a common variant of ascitic fluid infection that may resolve without treatment or may progress to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
Early postoperative care of the cardiac transplantation patient: routine considerations and immunosuppressive therapy.  The authors have attempted to outline the current state of the art with respect to the early postoperative management of the cardiac transplant recipient with special attention to immunosuppressive therapies.  The commonly used agents, as well as the most successful combination regimens, have been described along with the current levels of expectation regarding rates of rejection and infection.  Much has been learned regarding the management of these problems.  Much remains to be learned to further decrease the incidence of postoperative infection and rejection and, equally if not more importantly, studies to investigate the etiology of transplant coronary artery disease need to be undertaken such that measures to delay or prevent its occurrence and/or arrest its progression can be instituted.
Broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis.  In a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis, we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin (piperacillin) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination.  Whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections, such as acute cholangitis, however, is still unclear.  We, therefore, conducted a three center, prospective, randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis.  During a 36 month period, 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin (n = 49) or ampicillin plus tobramycin (n = 47).  The two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters.  The incidence of blood cultures with positive results (20 versus 21 per cent) and underlying malignant lesions (51 versus 62 per cent) was also similar between the two groups.  The percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups (69 versus 70 per cent).  However, there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions (83 versus 59 per cent, p less than 0.01).  No significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity, but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities (2 versus 19 per cent, p less than 0.05).  These data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction.
Prevention of infection in a porous tracheal prosthesis by omental wrapping.  The ideal tracheal prosthesis has to permit complete incorporation by epithelialization of the luminal surface.  This is not possible with the currently available impermeable solid silicone tube.  The authors developed a reinforced, porous polyurethane tubular prosthesis which has the potential for complete incorporation.  However, because these prostheses are implanted in a contamined area such as the airway, they all become infected.  In order to prevent infection, the authors evaluated the effect of omental wrapping in guinea pigs.  The authors' tubular prosthesis was implanted subcutaneously in the abdominal area with the ends open to the air.  Ten prostheses were wrapped with omentum and 10 prostheses were not.  In 4 weeks, all control prostheses were infected and marsupialized.  All the wrapped prostheses remained in place and were macroscopically not infected.  Microscopically, all wrapped prostheses were well vascularized and were incorporated by granulation tissue, which did not occur in the prostheses of the control group.  From these results the authors conclude that omental wrapping would be an effective way to prevent infection of porous tracheal prostheses in an open-to-the-air situation, and allow rapid tissue ingrowth and incorporation in the host.
Controversies in the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis   An increasing number of cases of sore throat caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococci occur with concomitant colonization by organisms that may "protect" the streptococci through beta-lactamase inactivation of penicillin at the site of infection.  The failure of penicillin to eradicate many of these bacteria, which include Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella (Branhamella) catarrhalis and a multitude of pharyngeal anaerobes, may help to explain why penicillin is sometimes ineffective for acute and recurrent group A streptococcal infections.  Therapeutic alternatives currently include cephalosporins, erythromycin, rifampin combined with penicillin, amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and others.
Relapse of infant botulism.  We report on 3 infants who had relapse of infant botulism after apparent resolution of clinical symptoms.  This group represented 5% of the infants with confirmed infant botulism who were treated at our institution since 1976.  The exact cause for these relapses was unclear, but three potential mechanisms are examined.  There were no historical, clinical, or electrophysiological predictors of relapse.  Although at the time of writing recovery from relapse appeared complete, close follow-up of patients recovering from a bout of infant botulism is necessary.
Cervicovaginal microflora and pregnancy outcome: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of erythromycin treatment.  Available information suggests that some instances of preterm birth or premature rupture of membranes are associated with clinically unrecognized infection and inflammation of the lower uterine segment, decidua, and fetal membranes.  Various cervicovaginal microorganisms have been recovered from these sites.  Many of these microorganisms produce factors that may lead to weakening of the fetal membranes, release of prostaglandins, or both.  This study evaluated the presence of various lower genital tract microflora and bacterial conditions in 229 women enrolled in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of short-course erythromycin treatment at 26 to 30 weeks' gestation to prevent preterm birth.  Demographic, obstetric, and microbiologic parameters were prospectively evaluated.  Premature rupture of membranes occurred less frequently (p less than 0.01) among women who received erythromycin (6%) versus placebo (16%).  Preterm premature rupture of membranes also occurred less frequently, although not significantly (p = 0.3) in patients who received erythromycin (2%) versus placebo (5%).  Erythromycin treatment significantly decreased the occurrence of premature rupture of membranes among women who were initially positive for Chlamydia trachomatis infection.  Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that C.  trachomatis (p = 0.05; odds ratio, 9), vaginal wash phospholipase C (p = 0.08; odds ratio, 6) and prior preterm birth (p = 0.007; odds ratio 17) were associated with increased risk of preterm birth.  Bacterial vaginosis, Mycoplasma hominis, Ureaplasma urealyticum were not significantly associated with increased risk of preterm birth or preterm rupture of membranes.  These findings support a role for selected lower genital tract microflora in preterm birth and premature rupture.  Large controlled treatment trials of specific infections or conditions associated with preterm birth and premature rupture of membranes are required to confirm the value of antimicrobial treatments in prevention of microbial-associated preterm birth.
Itraconazole therapy in aspergillosis: study in 49 patients.  Itraconazole, 200 to 400 mg once daily, was administered to 49 patients with different types of aspergillosis: pulmonary aspergilloma (14 patients), chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis (14), and invasive aspergillosis (21).  Itraconazole was prescribed alone or in combination or after treatment with amphotericin B and flucytosine.  Of 14 aspergilloma patients, 2 were cured and 8 had symptomatic improvement.  In chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis, 7 of 14 patients were cured and 6 improved significantly.  In invasive aspergillosis treatment failed in 6 patients and 15 were cured.  Itraconazole can be an alternative to amphotericin B in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis.  In aspergilloma itraconazole may be useful in inoperable cases.
Incidence of colonization, nosocomial pneumonia, and mortality in critically ill patients using a Trach Care closed-suction system versus an open-suction system: prospective, randomized study.  Eighty-four intubated, mechanically ventilated patients were prospectively evaluated for incidences of colonization and nosocomial pneumonias dependent on whether they received endotracheal suctioning by an "open" suction method vs.  "closed" suction (Trach Care Closed Suction System) method.  Results show that closed suctioning is associated with a significant (67% vs.  39% p less than .02) increase in colonization compared with open suctioning.  However, difference in the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia was not significantly (26% vs.  29%) different between closed and open suctioning.  Differences in severity of illness (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II and Therapeutic Intervention Scoring System), age, sex, presence of NG tubes, use of H2 antagonists or antacids, use of antibiotics, and history of smoking were all nonsignificant.  Survival analysis demonstrated that the probability of survival without developing nosocomial pneumonia was greater among closed-suctioning patients vs.  open-suctioned patients (p less than .03).  This study shows that suctioning performed via the Trach Care closed-suction system increases the incidence of colonization but not the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia, and may actually decrease mortality when compared with open-suction systems.
Risks of human immunodeficiency virus infection to patients and healthcare personnel.  The risk of nosocomial human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection among hospitalized patients comes almost exclusively from transfusion of fresh blood products.  Current estimates of the risk of HIV infection from the transfusion of blood or components vary from 1/40,000 to 1/250,000 (0.0025% to 0.0004%), with the most probable likelihood estimated to be 1/153,000 (0.0007%).  The major route of transmitting such HIV infection is via blood collected during the interval between infection of the donor and development of a detectable circulating antibody level to the AIDS virus (i.e., the "window period").  The current risk to hemophiliacs receiving treated coagulation factor concentrates is negligible.  The risk to healthcare personnel of acquiring HIV infection from accidental puncture wounds and from handling HIV-infected blood or body fluids is 0.42% per episode.  Most reported seroconversions have resulted from penetrating injuries with sharp objects contaminated with HIV-positive blood.  The degree of risk to healthcare workers will vary with the community, the patient population served, and the frequency of penetrating injuries.
Host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat.  Animals, chronically treated with alcohol, were inoculated with mycobacteria (bacillus Calmette-Guerin, 10.2 x 10(6) organisms) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis.  Before infection, chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin, 71.7% of baseline (P = 0.009).  Mycobacterial (bacillus Calmette-Guerin) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417% of baseline in controls and 299% in alcoholics (P less than 0.001).  The hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas (mean +/- SEM, 81.2 +/- 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs.  129.8 +/- 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls; P less than 0.001).  These changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver (54.5 +/- 18.2 in alcoholics vs.  5.6 +/- 1.83 in controls; P = 0.0006).  This model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver.
A randomized, double-blind trial of nystatin therapy for the candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome   BACKGROUND.  Candida albicans infection has been proposed to cause a chronic hypersensitivity syndrome characterized by fatigue, premenstrual tension, gastrointestinal symptoms, and depression.  Long-term antifungal therapy has been advocated as treatment for the syndrome, which is most often diagnosed in women with persistent or recurrent candida vaginitis.  METHODS.  To determine the efficacy of nystatin therapy for presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome, we conducted a 32-week randomized, double-blind, cross-over study using four different combinations of nystatin or placebo given orally or vaginally in 42 premenopausal women who met present criteria for the syndrome and had a history of candida vaginitis.  The outcomes studied were the changes from base line in scores for vaginal, systemic, and overall symptoms and in the results of standardized psychological tests.  RESULTS.  The three active-treatment regimens (oral and vaginal nystatin, oral nystatin and vaginal placebo, and oral placebo and vaginal nystatin) and the all-placebo regimen significantly reduced both vaginal and systemic symptoms (P less than 0.001), but nystatin did not reduce the systemic symptoms significantly more than placebo.  On average, the scores for systemic symptoms improved 25 percent with the three active-treatment regimens and 23 percent with the all-placebo regimen, a difference of only 2 percent (95 percent confidence interval, -3 to 7 percent).  As expected, the three active-treatment regimens were more effective than placebo in relieving vaginal symptoms (P less than 0.001).  All four regimens reduced psychological symptoms and global indexes of distress; there were no significant differences among the treatment regimens.  CONCLUSIONS.  In women with presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome, nystatin does not reduce systemic or psychological symptoms significantly more than placebo.  Consequently, the empirical recommendation of long-term nystatin therapy for such women appears to be unwarranted.
SCH-39304 in prevention and treatment of disseminated candidiasis in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits.  To investigate the potential use of SCH-39304 for the prevention and treatment of disseminated candidiasis in granulocytopenic patients, we studied its in vivo antifungal activity as preventive, early, and late treatments in three models (acute, subacute, and chronic) of disseminated candidiasis in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits.  SCH-39304 was an effective as amphotericin B alone and fluconazole alone for the prevention of disseminated candidiasis.  SCH-39304 alone and fluconazole alone were as effective as amphotericin B plus flucytosine for early treatment of subacute disseminated candidiasis.  When treatment was delayed for 5 days to establish chronic disseminated candidiasis, SCH-39304 was less effective than amphotericin B plus flucytosine.  In comparison with different treatment regimens, SCH-39304 was more effective in early and preventive treatment.  Thus, SCH-39304 was comparable to treatment control regimens in prevention and early treatment of subacute disseminated candidiasis.  SCH-39304 also was most effective in granulocytopenic rabbits with disseminated candidiasis when used for prevention or early treatment.
Clinical features of adenovirus enteritis: a review of 127 cases.  We retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 127 hospitalized pediatric patients whose fecal samples were positive for adenovirus (Ad) by electron microscopy during an 18-month period.  Serotyping results obtained by microneutralization tests and restriction endonuclease analysis were available for 105 of 127 cases.  There were 69 males and 58 females and 94% of patients were less than 4 years of age.  The average body temperature was 38 degrees C rectal (range, 36.2-40.8 degrees C) with an average duration of fever of 1.6 days.  The average duration of clinical illness was 8.8 days (range, 1 to 32 days).  Although Ad 40 and Ad 41 were isolated in the majority of cases (59 of 105 (56%], Ad 31 was associated with 18 of 105 cases (17%).  Of the 18 cases associated with Ad 31, 14 were nosocomial and associated with diarrhea.  Our survey confirms the importance of fastidious enteric Ad in infantile diarrhea (Ad 40, Ad 41) and suggests that Ad 31 produces a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by Ad 40 and Ad 41.  The occurrence of Ad enteritis in patients admitted for unrelated illnesses well after initial hospitalization suggests that Ad is also an important cause of nosocomial enteritis in our hospital.
The many faces and phases of borreliosis II.  Borrelia burgdorferi, the etiologic agent of Lyme disease, has also been associated with other cutaneous conditions.  Acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans and lymphadenosis benigna cutis are also caused by B.  burgdorferi.  Recent evidence links some cases of progressive facial hemiatrophy of Parry-Romberg, benign lymphocytic infiltrate of the skin (Jessner-Kanof), lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, morphea, and Shulman syndrome with borreliae.  This article reviews the manifestations of the diseases definitely linked to borreliosis and the evidence linking borreliae to progressive facial hemiatrophy, benign lymphocytic infiltrate, lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, morphea, and Shulman syndrome.
Ringer's acetate and dextran-70 with or without hypertonic saline in endotoxin-induced shock in pigs.  The effects of Ringer's acetate, 6% dextran-70, 7.5% NaCl, and the combination of 7.5% NaCl and dextran-70 were tested in resuscitation from endotoxin shock induced by continuous iv infusion of Escherichia coli endotoxin in pigs.  After about 3 h, a reproducible shock state was achieved and treatment was started, governed by the left atrial pressure.  The hypertonic solutions (7.5% NaCl and 7.5% NaCl in dextran-70) did not show any overall advantages over the isotonic solutions (Ringer's acetate and dextran-70).  Only transient beneficial hemodynamic effects lasting less than 30 min after infusion were seen.  When dextran-70 was administered, cardiovascular function was markedly improved and oxygen delivery (DO2) and survival were significantly higher compared with the crystalloid groups (Ringer's acetate and 7.5% NaCl).  Administration of large amounts of Ringer's acetate resulted in an immediate deterioration of pulmonary function.  It was difficult to elevate left atrial pressure or even to keep it at baseline level, and cardiac index was only transiently increased.  The overall result was a deterioration of DO2 and poor survival compared with the dextran-70 treated pigs.  We conclude that dextran-70 is superior to Ringer's acetate in resuscitation from endotoxin-induced shock in pigs.  Furthermore, we found no role for the use of hypertonic saline, alone or in combination with dextran, in the treatment of this type of prolonged endotoxin shock.
Restriction endonuclease analysis of total cellular DNA of Aspergillus fumigatus isolates of geographically and epidemiologically diverse origin.  No typing system exists for Aspergillus fumigatus, though isolates are distinguishable by phenotypic characteristics.  DNA was prepared by lysis of protoplasts, followed by deproteination, phenolchloroform extraction, and dialysis.  DNA prepared was of uniform size and exceeded 60 kb.  After digestion with SalI and XhoI endonucleases, DNA was electrophoresed, stained, and photographed.  Differences in the mobilities of 10- to 50-kb bands distinguished isolates.  Reproducibility was shown by repeated preparations and animal passage.  By use of a proposed notation system for describing restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns, 31 epidemiologically characterized isolates from three continents revealed 24 patterns (DNA types).  Three DNA types were represented by 3 isolates each and 1 DNA type by 2 isolates; 20 types were unique.  Two groups of 3 isolates of the same DNA type were from Stanford University Hospital.  One patient isolate from Stanford was the same DNA type as a sewage isolate from New Jersey.  Another Stanford isolate was the same as a German isolate.  These observations indicate widespread dispersal of some clones and restricted locales for others.  Paired isolates from airway fluids of three patients had two DNA types in each.  Restriction endonuclease typing shows promise for investigating the epidemiology and ecology of A.  fumigatus.
Septic pulmonary embolism complicating a central venous catheter.  Bacteremia is a recognized complication in patients with indwelling central venous catheters.  More recently pulmonary embolism in such patients has also been described.  Despite abundant clinical experience with these devices, to our knowledge, septic pulmonary embolism has not been reported in adult patients.  This case illustrates such a complication.
Hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent Helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis.  We report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms, hyperplastic gastric polyps, and active chronic gastritis.  Biopsies retrospectively stained with Giemsa revealed the persistent presence of Helicobacter pylori (HP) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr.  After treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate, both became asymptomatic, one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the HP.  These cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with HP and active gastritis.
Sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes.  Sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions.  Disseminated N.  gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis, which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy.  In contrast, both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic "reactive" arthritis or Reiter's syndrome.  Inheritance of HLA B27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition.  The demonstration of C.  trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class I HLA antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease.  Arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50% of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis B infection.  Joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions, especially on the legs; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice.  Hepatitis B infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis, which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis.  Seronegative arthritis, including Reiter's syndrome, psoriatic arthritis, and undifferentiated arthritis, a Sjogren's-like syndrome, vasculitis, and myopathies have been described in association with HIV infection.  It is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that HIV is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired.  Nevertheless, synovitis may occur in the presence of marked CD4-positive lymphocyte depletion.  Rheumatic syndromes, including arthralgia, inflammatory arthritis, and neuropathic arthritis, may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis.  Syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy, but neuropathic lesions cannot be treated effectively.  Septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated Mycoplasma or Urea-plasma infections, and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa compared with Escherichia coli produces less endotoxemia but more cardiovascular dysfunction and mortality in a canine model of septic shock.  We investigated the effects of two different Gram-negative bacteria and radiation-induced leukopenia on endotoxemia, cardiovascular abnormalities, and mortality in a canine model of septic shock.  Serial hemodynamics were measured in conscious dogs using radionuclide heart scans and thermodilution cardiac output catheters.  Plasma endotoxin concentrations were determined with a chromogenic Limulus amebocyte lysate assay.  Viable Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Escherichia coli implanted intraperitoneally produced concordant hemodynamic patterns of septic shock (p less than 0.01).  Endotoxin concentrations were more than tenfold lower in dogs infected with P aeruginosa compared with E coli (p less than 0.0001).  Despite lower endotoxin levels, P aeruginosa-infected dogs had a higher mortality (p less than 0.01), more severe hypotension (p less than 0.05), and greater depression of the left ventricular ejection fraction (p less than 0.05) than dogs with E coli sepsis.  A nonlethal E coli challenge combined with leukopenia (induced by a nonlethal dose of radiation) resulted in a mortality of 60 percent (p less than 0.01) without greater cardiovascular dysfunction or higher endotoxin concentrations.  These findings suggest that bacterial products other than endotoxin and host-related factors may be important contributors to the toxicity, cardiovascular instability, and mortality of Gram-negative septic shock.  Quantitative determinations of plasma endotoxin are unlikely to correlate with the clinical severity of septicemia in heterogeneous patient populations infected with different Gram-negative organisms.
Infection during chronic epidural catheterization: diagnosis and treatment.  A potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection.  The early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted.  Three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved; exit site and superficial catheter track infection, and epidural space infection.  The authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients.  All 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal.  None of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression.  Catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections.  It was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate.  The use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established.
Tuberculous peritonitis: a study comparing cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients.  Tuberculous peritonitis is a rare disease, which often goes unrecognized because of the subtle clinical clues and its insidous onset.  We retrospectively analyzed the records of 37 cases of tuberculous peritonitis diagnosed over a 15-year period, and compared the clinical and diagnostic features of cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients.  In cirrhotic patients, tuberculous peritonitis can simulate ascites from liver disease or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.  The diagnosis is difficult in these patients because the ascitic fluid may not be of the exudative type as a result of the low albumin level in serum, and lymphocytes do not predominate in all cases.  Adenosine deaminase (ADA) activity in ascitic fluid was elevated (higher than 40 U/L) in all 11 patients (four patients with hepatic cirrhosis).  The time required to achieve a correct diagnosis was significantly longer in cirrhotic than in noncirrhotic patients.  The overall mortality was 13%, with deaths occurring exclusively among cirrhotic patients.  We emphasize that tuberculous peritonitis in cirrhotic patients can present an atypical picture.  A considerable element of suspicion is necessary.
Early hospital discharge of children with cancer treated for fever and neutropenia: identification and management of the low-risk patient.  Children with leukemia and solid tumors are often hospitalized for empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy because of fever during periods of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia.  Conventional practice dictates that parenteral antibiotics be continued until the patient is afebrile and has recovered from neutropenia, ie, until the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) exceeds 500 cells per cubic millimeter.  However, the practice in our center has been to discontinue parenteral antibiotic therapy and discharge many such patients before resolution of neutropenia.  Since the feasibility and safety of this approach has not been studied, we reviewed the records of 114 consecutive hospitalizations for fever and neutropenia in 61 patients during a 13-month period.  Seventy-seven children (68%) were discharged to their homes while still neutropenic after they had been afebrile for 1 to 2 days on parenteral antibiotics, had negative blood cultures, appeared well, and usually had some evidence of bone marrow recovery.  Five patients (4.4%) developed recurrent fever and required rehospitalization within 7 days of discharge.  Only three of the 77 patients (3.9%) who were sent home with neutropenia had recurrent fever.  Each had a brief and uneventful second hospitalization.  Two of the 37 children discharged with an ANC over 500 cells per cubic millimeter required rehospitalization.  A declining ANC and advanced malignancy were risk factors in predicting recurrence of fever following discharge.  A rising monocyte count was a predictor of imminent recovery from neutropenia.  These results suggest that "early" discharge of an afebrile yet still neutropenic patient is safe when the patient is in remission, has no evidence of serious infection, appears clinically stable, and has indications of bone marrow recovery.  The conventional approach of routinely continuing the hospitalization until resolution of neutropenia may be unnecessary in such low-risk patients.
Human intestinal tissue antibiotic concentrations. Clindamycin, gentamicin, and mezlocillin.  An antibiotic, to be effective for prophylaxis in abdominal trauma, should quickly achieve high concentrations in the intestinal wall and at enough inhibitory levels to kill most aerobic and anaerobic bacteria that are potential contaminants at the site of surgical incision.  Therefore, we studied the intestinal tissue levels of clindamycin, gentamicin, and mezlocillin to see whether the tissue levels achieved by these antibiotics in the intestinal tissue were adequate.  A single dose of mezlocillin, 4 grams; clindamycin, 600 mg and gentamicin, 80 mg; quickly reached the desired concentrations, i.e., 52.3, 9.69 and 6.1 micrograms/gram of intestinal tissue respectively.  These levels were high enough to inhibit the growth of most isolates of E.  coli and B.  fragilis, common pathogens involved in intra-abdominal abscess.
Occurrence of secondary attenuating mutations in avirulent Salmonella typhimurium vaccine strains.  The attenuating delta aroA554 mutation in Salmonella typhimurium strain SL3261 was complemented in vitro by selecting for AroA+ recombinant DNA clones.  SL3261 containing cloned aroA+ genes did not require exogenous phenylalanine, tryptophan, tryosine, p-aminobenzoic acid, or dihydroxybenzoic acid for growth in defined media.  Cloned aroA+ genes did not restore wild-type virulence to SL3261, however, in a murine typhoid model.  The delta aroA554 mutation was transduced into S.  typhimurium strain SR-11, a mouse-virulent strain recently passaged in mice.  The SR-11 delta aroA554 mutant was highly attenuated for mice challenged parenterally.  The same cloned aroA+ genes isolated in SL3261 restored the virulence of the SR-11 delta aroA554 mutant to that of wild-type SR-11.  These results suggest that while the delta aroA554 allele remains effective in reducing S.  typhimurium virulence, laboratory passage of attenuated vaccine strains may lead to the accumulation of additional attenuating defects.
Simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections.  A simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections was done on 19 limbs with 84% good results for healing.  The first stage was the standard below-knee amputation with a long posterior flap in which the fascia and skin were closed in the central portion with the medial and lateral portions of the wound left open for drainage.  The second stage was delayed until closure of the open wounds three to seven days after the first stage.  Wagner's classification of diabetic foot lesions was used to stratify these cases.  Grades 3 and 4 foot infections had a uniformly good prognosis for healing with this surgical technique.  Grade 5 foot infections had a poor prognosis for healing, especially if associated with renal failure and dialysis, even with an initial guillotine amputation.
External fixation for type III open tibial fractures.  An analysis of 51 type III open tibial fractures treated by external skeletal fixation is presented.  The fractures are subdivided according to the classification of Gustilo, Mendoza and Williams (1984) into types IIIa, IIIb and IIIc.  The different prognoses of these fracture subtypes is examined.  The use of the Hoffmann and Hughes external fixators in the management of type III open tibial fractures is presented and it is suggested that the prognosis is independent of the type of fixator used.
Gunshot injuries to the hip and abdomen: the association of joint and intra-abdominal visceral injuries.  A retrospective review of all gunshot injuries to the hip at our medical center over a 24-year period was performed.  Adequate information and radiographs were available for 49 patients.  Of these, five patients (10.2%) had associated abdominal visceral injuries.  These five patients were examined at an average of 5.9 years after their injury, and compared by utilizing the Harris Hip Score rating.  Radiographs were also obtained.  Four of these five patients (80%) had initially developed infections in their hip joints, with all four having poor functional outcomes, with an average Harris Hip Score of 48.5 from their hip injury.  Careful initial evaluation and aggressive surgical and antibiotic treatment are recommended to prevent these poor results.
South American blastomycosis: ophthalmic and oculomotor nerve lesions.  A case of South American blastomycosis began with an oropharyngeal lesion which was followed by a granulomatous uveitis.  The patient was treated with Amphotericin B and showed a clinical regression.  Four months later, he developed a right 3rd cranial nerve palsy, aggravating the clinical aspect with a severe generalized involvement of the central nervous system and death.  Necropsy showed blastomycotic meningoencephalitis.
Antibodies in human tears during and after infection.  The tear content of antibodies specific for various infectious agents has recently begun to be investigated.  Important parameters of tear analysis with respect to antibody content are the method of tear collection and the laboratory techniques used to detect specific antibodies in the lacrimal fluid.  Normal tears contain antibodies directed against both bacteria and viruses, and the antibody response in lacrimal fluid during immunization of animals and humans has been studied to some extent.  This response has also been analyzed in humans during and after natural infection with certain viral and bacterial pathogens.  It has become clear that local antibody synthesis takes place in the lacrimal gland, but at least some of these antibodies appear in tears because of lymphocyte sensitization in the common mucosal immune system.  A certain degree of transudation of serum antibodies to tears is also often encountered, especially in severely inflamed eyes.  Much of the data currently available needs to be confirmed, and more extensive studies need to be carried out for many pathogens.  Potential benefits of such studies include development of new diagnostic techniques as well as a better understanding of when and how antibodies confer protection or may be potentially damaging.
Perinatal mortality in Victoria, Australia: role of group B Streptococcus.  Group B beta-hemolytic streptococcus is the most common infective cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality.  It is therefore surprising that no agreement exists for an approach to its prevention.  There is also increasing evidence that occult infection may play an etiologic role in premature rupture of the membranes and preterm labor.  In this report we review the role of group B beta-hemolytic streptococcal sepsis as a cause of perinatal wastage in the state of Victoria, Australia during the period 1982 to 1987.  Group B beta-hemolytic streptococcus accounted for 1.7% of overall perinatal deaths, and for 30.3% (77 of 254) perinatal deaths directly attributable to infection.  By comparison, over the same 6-year period, erythroblastosis accounted for 0.5% of perinatal wastage and there were only two deaths as a result of congenital syphilis.  The true incidence of lethal group B beta-hemolytic streptococcal infection is probably greater because of the absence of histologic and bacteriologic studies in many perinatal deaths.  We believe that intrapartum chemoprophylaxis with penicillin of all group B beta-hemolytic streptococcus-positive carrier mothers would significantly reduce neonatal morbidity and mortality from this cause.
Thoracoplasty: current application to the infected pleural space   Thoracoplasty, once commonly used in the management of cavitary pulmonary disease, continues to find application in the obliteration of infected pleural spaces.  This study reports a series of 13 patients receiving thoracoplasty between 1976 and 1989.  Five patients had chronic apical empyema spaces without prior resection of lung tissue.  Two of the empyemas were due to tuberculosis, two were due to atypical mycobacteria, and one was due to postpneumonic empyema.  All patients had extensive destruction of upper lobe tissue.  Eight patients had undergone prior pulmonary resection; 3 had persistent infected spaces in the early postoperative period, 3 had development of empyemas and bronchopleural fistulas late (5 to 19 years) after pulmonary resection, and 2 had postpneumonectomy empyema.  All patients had rigid cavity walls preventing space obliteration by rib removal alone and required concomitant resection of the thickened pleura and intercostal muscle tissues.  Bronchopleural fistulas were present in 11 patients and were closed with adjacent nonintercostal muscle.  All patients survived and had successful obliteration of the infected spaces with acceptable physiological and cosmetic results.  We conclude that thoracoplasty remains a useful procedure in the management of the infected pleural space in select patients.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy for necrotizing fasciitis reduces mortality and the need for debridements.  Twenty-nine patients with necrotizing fasciitis were treated from 1980 to 1988.  This study evaluates how the addition of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy to surgical treatment has affected mortality and the number of debridements required to achieve wound control in these patients.  Two groups of patients were viewed: group 1 (n = 12) received surgical debridement and antibiotics only; group 2 (n = 17) received HBO (90 minutes at 2.5 atm, average 7.4 treatments) in addition to surgery and antibiotics.  Both groups were similar in age, race, sex, wound bacteriology, and antimicrobial therapy.  Body surface area affected was similar, however, perineal involvement was more common in group 2 (53%) than in group 1 (12%).  The admitting conditions of patients in group 1 (non-HBO) were diabetic, 33%; white blood cell count more than 12,000, 50%; and shock, 8%.  The admitting conditions of patients in group 2 (HBO) were diabetic, 47%; white blood cell count more than 12,000, 59%; and shock, 29%.  Although group 2 patients receiving HBO were more seriously ill on admission, mortality was significantly lower (23%) compared to group 1 (66%) (p less than 0.02).  In addition, only 1.2 debridements per group 2 patient were required to achieve wound control versus 3.3 debridements per group 1 patient (p less than 0.03).  The addition of HBO therapy to the surgical and antimicrobial treatment of necrotizing fasciitis significantly reduced mortality and wound morbidity (number of debridements) in this study, especially among nonclostridial infections.  We conclude that HBO should be used routinely in the treatment of necrotizing fasciitis.
Altered Ca2+ homeostasis and functional correlates in hepatocytes and adipocytes in endotoxemia and sepsis.  Decreased cytosolic [Ca2+] and impaired Ca2+ release in response to an IP3 challenge are among perturbations in hepatocyte Ca2+ homeostasis associated with endotoxemia and sepsis.  These changes are consistent with the accompanying alterations in appropriate physiologic functions, e.g., activation of glycogen phosphorylase and gluconeogenesis, mediated by [Ca2+]c and defective phosphorylation of relevant enzymes.  Attenuation of IP3 binding to the subcellular fractions that are imputed to be targets of IP3 and a decrease in the size of the IP3-sensitive pool of releasable Ca2+ are underlying components of the mechanism of the reduced Ca2+ release upon IP3 stimulation and its metabolic sequelae.  ET treatment leads to a significant increase in Ca2+ associated with the cell surface compartment of adipocytes, a reduction in 45Ca2+ uptake by endoplasmic reticulum and higher cytosolic [Ca2+] under basal conditions and upon ACTH stimulation than that observed in cells of control rats.  The reduced 45Ca2+ uptake is also manifest in adipocytes of septic rats.  Alterations in adipocyte metabolism induced by ET include increased oxidation of glucose to CO2 (an insulin-like effect) and increased lipolysis upon NE and ACTH stimulation.
Seizures and other neurologic sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children.  BACKGROUND.  Although the mortality rate among children with bacterial meningitis has decreased dramatically in recent decades, some patients are left with neurologic sequelae.  It has not been clearly established which features of the acute illness predict the chronic neurologic sequelae, including late seizures or epilepsy.  METHODS.  We followed 185 infants and children prospectively during and after acute bacterial meningitis.  The mean duration of follow-up was 8.9 years (range, 0.1 to 15.5).  During the first six years standard neurologic examinations were performed; telephone interviews were conducted thereafter.  RESULTS.  One month after meningitis, 69 children (37 percent) had neurologic abnormalities.  Many of these signs resolved within a year, leaving only 26 children (14 percent) with persistent deficits: 18 (10 percent) had only sensorineural hearing loss, and 8 (4 percent) had multiple neurologic deficits.  Thirteen children (7 percent) had one or more late seizures not associated with fever.  The presence of persistent neurologic deficits indicative of cerebral injury was the only independent predictor of late afebrile seizures (P less than 0.001).  CONCLUSIONS.  After bacterial meningitis only children with permanent neurologic deficits are at high risk for epilepsy.  Those with normal examinations after the acute illness have an excellent change of escaping serious neurologic sequelae, including epilepsy.
Air contamination in open heart surgery with disposable coveralls, gowns, and drapes.  The effect of a polypropylene coverall, replacing shirt and trousers, combined with sterile laminated gowns and drapes compared with an all-cotton system was studied in regard to the dispersion of bacteria and particles in a conventionally ventilated operating theater.  The operations carried out were open heart procedures in 30 adult patients.  Blood agar sedimentation plates were placed in the operative, anesthesia, and perfusion areas.  The mean sedimentation values during 1 hour after the start of operation were as follows in the laminate group: 63 colony-forming units (cfu)/m2 in the operative area; 77 cfu/m2 in the anesthesia area; and 143 cfu/m2 in the perfusion area.  The corresponding figures in the cotton group were 350 cfu/m2, 364 cfu/m2, and 437 cfu/m2, respectively (p less than 0.0002).  At the beginning of the operation, the mean values noted for colony-forming units in the air at the operative site were 8.0 cfu/m3 in the laminate group and 31 cfu/m3 in the cotton group.  One hour later, the values were 10 cfu/m3 and 22 cfu/m3, respectively (p less than 0.0002).  At the end of the operation, the number of particles 5 microns or larger in the air at the operative site was 278/m3 in the laminate group and 592/m3 in the cotton group.  It is concluded that the use of a polypropylene coverall and laminated gowns and drapes significantly reduces the particle and bacterial contamination of the air and the bacterial sedimentation during cardiac operations.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha plays a role in host defense against Histoplasma capsulatum.  Tumor necrosis factor-alpha was detected in supernatants collected from BALB/c mouse peritoneal macrophages incubated continuously with Histoplasma capsulatum.  The levels of TNF alpha measured by actinomycin D bioassay peaked within hours after exposure and then greatly declined by 24 h.  TNF alpha was also measured in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from BALB/c mice challenged intranasally with H.  capsulatum.  Lavage fluid TNF alpha levels exhibited the same pattern as the in vitro supernatants; they peaked within hours after challenge and lower levels were detected at 24 h.  Treatment of mice with anti-TNF alpha antibody accelerated mortality in response to systemic infection and significantly increased tissue colony counts in the liver and spleen.  In the murine model, TNF alpha is produced in response to H.  capsulatum and appears to play some role in host defense to infection.
Total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus.  A retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus.  The overall infection rate was 7%, with an overall revision rate of 10% and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years.  Wound complications were present in 12% of the TKAs.  The rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients.  Therefore, maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having TKA to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis.
Acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis.  Six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large, placoid, yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas.  All eyes had vitreitis.  All of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining.  Five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis.  All five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions.  The ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis.  Modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus (HIV) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture.  Three of the four patients tested positive for HIV.
The role of indium-labelled leukocyte imaging in pyrexia of unknown origin.  Indium-111-labeled white blood cell scanning is often used in the investigation of pyrexia of unknown origin (PUO) to locate an otherwise occult source of sepsis.  From a series of 166 white blood cell studies performed for sepsis, 28 cases of true PUO were identified and reviewed.  The sensitivity was 60% and specificity 70%, with a positive predictive value of 38% and negative predictive value of 90%.  Only 11% of studies revealed a pyogenic cause for PUO.  These results are discussed and the potential role of gallium scanning in PUO is raised.
Disc space infection: a case report with MRI diagnosis.  Vertebral disc space infection is an uncommon cause of back pain.  Physical findings may be unimpressive and laboratory evaluation may only disclose an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate.  Magnetic resonance imaging is particularly useful, since it reveals abnormalities earlier than plain radiographs and is more precise than bone scan.
Review of hepatic imaging and a problem-oriented approach to liver masses.  We believe that imaging of the liver is complicated.  The sporadic appearance of incidental benign lesions and variability in scanning techniques, equipment and artifacts add difficulties to the evaluation of liver masses.  Therefore we emphasize the need to define the problem for which the patient is being imaged.  This information helps in choosing the procedure of choice and the technique needed to give the most expedient, accurate answer.  This will also help apply the lowest risk and most cost-efficient care.  Imaging algorithms vary depending on the suspected pathological conditions.  Dynamic bolus-enhanced CT is the modality of choice in most situations.  Tc99m sulfur-colloid liver-spleen scans are helpful in patients with suspected FNH, and Tc99m-tagged-RBC-SPECT scans are recommended to confirm cavernous hemangiomas.  Cysts are easily confirmed by US.  Although MRI is competitive with CT, it has not become a primary modality because of cost, availability, patient selection and variability of scanner capabilities among the many manufacturers and models.  It is hard to predict what future development of imaging techniques will bring.  Many feel that significant advances have plateaued.  Time and money will more likely be concentrated on improving image resolution, speed of scanning and ability to transfer this information to sites outside of the radiology department.  In addition to faster scanning, we expect to soon have available safe intravenous and enteric contrast agents for MRI.  Certainly this will lead to a new round of investigations to compare MRI with CT scanning.
Thoracic empyema: causes, diagnosis, and treatment.  Thoracic empyema is a disease that has been recognized for centuries.  The principles of management as stated by Hippocrates remain more or less unchanged.  Diagnosis can be masked by the underlying cause, preemptive antibiotic treatment, or the now frequently associated debilitating diseases.  With no other specific investigation, the main diagnostic test remains diagnostic thoracentesis.  When an empyema is encountered, the objectives are to save life; eliminate the empyema, its complications, and chronicity; return pulmonary mechanics to normal; and reduce the duration of the hospital stay.  The introduction of antibiotics has dramatically influenced the spectrum of the disease now encountered.  If the original infection is adequately treated, empyema rarely occurs.  Penicillin has removed the major cause of empyema, and further developments in antibiotics now mean that the majority of empyemas occur when patients are disabled by other disease processes or malnutrition, or where there remains a delay in medical attention.  These patients are often less able to withstand the prolongation of the infective processes that is sometimes encountered with the staged approach to treatment.  Developments in operative and postoperative care have meant that these patients can best be treated by more aggressive and definitive surgical management.
Antimicrobial resistance of Shigella isolates in the USA: the importance of international travelers.  A nationwide sample of Shigella isolates was collected and tested for resistance to 12 antimicrobial agents to assess the prevalence and epidemiologic correlates of antimicrobial resistance in Shigella.  Of the isolates, 32% were resistant to ampicillin, 7% to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 0.4% to nalidixic acid.  Fifty (20%) of 252 isolates were associated with foreign travel.  The best predictor of clinically important resistance was a history of foreign travel: 20% of isolates from foreign travelers showed trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole resistance, compared with only 4% of isolates from those without such a history.  Quinolone resistance was not identified in travel-related isolates, and quinolones may be more appropriate for initial therapy of travel-related shigellosis than is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
Vaginitis emphysematosa. A report of four cases.  It has been hypothesized that vaginitis emphysematosa is a manifestation of trichomonal or Gardnerella infection.  In support of this etiologic concept, four cases of the disorder are described showing the apparent curative effect of treating the associated infection.  The linkage of these and other reported cases with conditions of impaired immunity suggests that immunologic factors are involved in the pathogenesis.
Helicobacter pylori and associated duodenal ulcer.  Twenty three children with coexistent duodenal ulcer and Helicobacter pylori infection were treated with either two weeks of amoxycillin (25 mg/kg/day) in addition to six weeks of cimetidine, or cimetidine alone.  Endoscopy with antral and duodenal biopsies for urease test, microaerophilic culture, and histological studies were performed at entry, six weeks, 12 weeks, and at six months.  Children with persistent H pylori infection at six weeks were given a further two weeks' course of amoxycillin.  H pylori persisted in all children not receiving amoxycillin treatment but cleared in six of the 13 children (46%) treated with amoxycillin.  With failure of H pylori clearance at six months, only two out of six (33%) ulcers had healed and 50% of patients had experienced ulcer recurrence.  In contrast, when H pylori remained cleared all ulcers healed and no ulcer recurred.  Persistent H pylori infection was associated with persistent gastritis and duodenitis despite endoscopic evidence of ulcer healing.  Detection and eradication of H pylori deserves particular attention in the routine management of duodenal ulceration in children.
Case-control study of Cryptosporidium parvum infection in Peruvian children hospitalized for diarrhea: possible association with malnutrition and nosocomial infection.  A retrospective, hospital-based case-control study was used to investigate whether there were any clinical characteristics that could distinguish Cryptosporidium parvum-infected children with diarrhea from other non-C.  parvum-infected children with diarrhea.  Ten percent (24 of 248) of children admitted to a rehydration ward at Cayetano Heredia University Hospital, Lima, Peru, were infected with C.  parvum.  The 24 patients infected with C.  parvum (cases) were matched to an equal number of noninfected patients (controls).  C.  parvum-infected patients were more likely to be malnourished than were children without this infection (P less than 0.05).  Also nosocomial infection caused by C.  parvum occurred in three severely malnourished patients, two of whom died.  No other clinical or laboratory characteristics were found that would distinguish children with diarrhea caused by C.  parvum from other children with diarrhea.  In children hospitalized for diarrhea C.  parvum infection occurs most frequently in malnourished children.
Immunogenicity in animals of a polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccine against type III group B Streptococcus.  The native capsular polysaccharide of type III group B Streptococcus elicits a specific antibody response in only 60% of nonimmune human subjects.  To enhance the immunogenicity of this polysaccharide, we coupled the type III polysaccharide to tetanus toxoid.  Prior to coupling, aldehyde groups were introduced on the polysaccharide by controlled periodate oxidation, resulting in the conversion of 25% of the sialic acid residues of the polysaccharide to residues of the 8-carbon analogue of sialic acid, 5-acetamido-3,5-dideoxy-D-galactosyloctulosonic acid.  Tetanus toxoid was conjugated to the polysaccharide by reductive amination, via the free aldehyde groups present on the partially oxidized sialic acid residues.  Rabbits vaccinated with the conjugate vaccine produced IgG antibodies that reacted with the native type III group B streptococcal polysaccharide (3/3 rabbits), while rabbits immunized with the unconjugated type III polysaccharide failed to respond (0/3 rabbits).  Sera from animals receiving conjugate vaccine opsonized type III group B streptococci for phagocytic killing by human peripheral blood leukocytes, and protected mice against lethal challenge with live type III group B streptococci.  The results suggest that this method of conjugation to a carrier protein may be a useful strategy to improve the immunogenicity of the type III group B Streptococcus polysaccharide in human subjects.
Another hazard of ear syringing: malignant external otitis.  A case of malignant external otitis is presented.  This occurred in a healthy 72-year-old non-diabetic, non-immuno-compromised man after ear syringing.  The infection was treated with oral ciprofloxacin for eight weeks with complete resolution.
The Hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fractures of the femoral neck. A 10-year prospective study.  In a 10-year prospective study, 561 displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck in 546 patients were treated with the Hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty.  Within six months of their operations, 148 patients had died.  In 322 hips followed up, 243 with adequate serial radiographs separated by more than one year, only 14 (5.6%) showed acetabular erosion.  A group of 91 had been reviewed for between three and nine years (mean, 4 years 10 months) and of these, 95% had no pain or slight pain only.  Comparison with an earlier series of conventional hemiarthroplasties reported from this institution showed that the clinical results were similar, but that the erosion rate had been halved.
Botulism among Alaska Natives. The role of changing food preparation and consumption practices.  Alaska Natives have one of the highest rates of food-borne botulism worldwide.  All outbreaks have been associated with the consumption of native foods, but in recent years outbreaks have occurred in previously unaffected areas and have involved new food items.  Five botulism outbreaks occurred between 1975 and 1985 in an area of southwestern Alaska without previous confirmed outbreaks and among one ethnic group, the Yupik Eskimo.  Of the 5 outbreaks, 3 were associated with fermented beaver tail, a nontraditional native food recently introduced into the region.  Preparation techniques vary widely within villages and among ethnic groups.  Traditional fermentation techniques have changed over the past 50 years; current preparation methods used by some families and ethnic groups may be more favorable for Clostridium botulinum growth.  Prevention efforts should be targeted at high-risk subgroups of Alaska Natives who appear to have modified traditional practices and increased their risk of food-borne botulism.
Management of Peyronie disease by implantation of inflatable penile prosthesis.  Sixty-seven patients with advanced Peyronie disease were treated by implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP).  Twenty-eight of the 67 patients had documented total erectile failure.  The remaining 39 patients had significant penile curvature causing "mechanical impotence" due to inability to achieve adequate vaginal penetration and chose implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis (in some cases, combined with a straightening procedure) rather than one of the standard penile straightening procedures.  Currently, 63 of the 67 patients have functioning prosthetic devices; in 3 other patients the device was removed because of infection, and 1 patient was dissatisfied and had the device removed.  For impotent patients with severe Peyronie disease for whom other medical or surgical treatment is neither desirable nor suitable, we recommend implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis combined with a possible straightening procedure.
Clinical and pathological features of bacillary peliosis hepatis in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection   BACKGROUND.  Peliosis hepatis is characterized by cystic, blood-filled spaces in the liver and is seen in patients with chronic infections or advanced cancer and as a consequence of therapy with anabolic steroids.  Cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis is a bacterial infection that occurs in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; its histologic appearance is that of a pseudoneoplastic vascular proliferation.  METHODS.  We studied liver tissue from eight HIV-infected patients with peliosis hepatis, two of whom also had cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis.  For comparison we examined tissue from four patients who had peliosis hepatis without HIV infection.  Tissues were examined histologically on routine sections and with special stains and electron microscopy.  RESULTS.  The histologic features seen in peliosis hepatis associated with HIV infection, but not in the four cases unrelated to HIV infection, were myxoid stroma and clumps of a granular purple material that on Warthin-Starry staining and electron microscopy proved to be bacilli.  The bacilli, which could not be cultured, were morphologically identical to those found in the skin lesions of cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis.  The clinical courses of two of the patients with this "bacillary peliosis hepatis" indicate that it responds to antibiotic treatment.  CONCLUSIONS.  HIV-associated bacillary peliosis hepatis is an unusual, treatable opportunistic infection, probably caused by the same organism that causes cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis.  Our failure to find bacilli in non-HIV-associated cases implies that other pathogenetic mechanisms may also be responsible for peliosis hepatis.
Iatrogenic contamination of multidose vials in simulated use. A reassessment of current patient injection technique.  An investigation of the potential spread of iatrogenic infections through contaminated multidose vials was performed.  Contamination of a multidose vial was hypothesized to occur after a single syringe is used to inject an infected patient with medication, and the same syringe subsequently is used to withdraw additional medication from the multidose vial.  If the contaminated multidose vial is used for another patient, an iatrogenic infection may be spread.  Laboratory study of this injection technique found that viral plaque-forming units could be transmitted to a multidose vial in this manner.  A survey of 100 fellows of the American Academy of Dermatology from the United States found that 24% of the respondents used this potentially unsafe procedure.  The potential for iatrogenic spread of the human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus is described.  Recommendations to avoid patient infection are made.
Effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on neutropenia due to chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.  The authors administered recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhG-CSF) to 16 patients with advanced non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with combination chemotherapy.  Groups of three to five patients were treated with 50, 100, 200, and 400 micrograms/m2 per day of rhG-CSF by intravenous infusion for 14 days, beginning 3 days after chemotherapy.  There was a strong linear relationship between the dose and the area under the curve over this dose range.  The rhG-CSF was rapidly cleared from serum, with a mean half-life of 5.97 hours for the second phase (t1/2).  In patients treated with a dose of more than 100 micrograms/m2 per day, the duration of neutropenia (P less than 0.01) and the duration of fever (P less than 0.05) were significantly decreased.  The rhG-CSF was well tolerated and the only clinical observation that appeared relating to rhG-CSF administration was slight bone pain.  This study strongly suggests that an optimum dose of rhG-CSF in patients after chemotherapy is 100 to 200 micrograms/m2.  Our study shows that rhG-CSF is a clinically useful drug for patients treated with myelosuppressive chemotherapy.
Antimicrobial prophylaxis for open heart operations.  Between 1986 and 1988, 450 adults undergoing coronary artery bypass, cardiac valve replacement, or both were enrolled into a prospective, randomized, comparative trial of cephalothin versus cefamandole as perioperative prophylaxis.  They were assessed during their hospitalization and at 6 weeks and 6 months after discharge for postoperative infectious complications.  Eleven patients had major postoperative infections including 5 with sternal wound infections (three bacteremic), 6 with bacteremia, 1 with prosthetic valve endocarditis, and 3 with severe venous donor graft site infections.  Eight major infections occurred in patients receiving cephalothin prophylaxis and three in patients receiving cefamandole, with all five sternal wound infections occurring in the cephalothin group.  Postoperative pathogens responsible for the major infections included gram-negative aerobes in 5 patients, Staphylococcus aureus in 4, and Staphylococcus epidermidis in 2.  Preoperative colonizing staphylococcal isolates were not predictive of postoperative staphylococcal pathogens.  Although there was no statistically significant difference in rate of major postoperative infectious complications using either cephalothin or cefamandole prophylaxis, there was a trend in favor of cefamandole.  Gram-negative aerobes are becoming increasingly important pathogens in this setting.
The national immunization program of The Netherlands.  After a brief explanation of the immunization policy in the Netherlands, the national immunization program is described, with special attention given to coupling of the municipal population records with a computerized database of individual immunization records at the provincial level.  The Dutch program achieves coverage rates greater than 90% for all routine immunizations.  Participation in the program is free of charge to every child living in the country up to the age of 13 years, but there is no obligation or requirement to be immunized.  Financing of the program is also discussed.
Effects of method of hemostasis on wound-infection rate.  Adequate hemostasis is important in preventing postoperative wound infection.  This study compared four methods of hemostasis: specific pinpoint vessel electrocautery (SPC), specific vessel ligation with 4-0 vicryl (SVL), nonspecific electrocautery of vessel plus excessive surrounding tissue (NSC), and nonspecific ligation of vessel and excessive surrounding tissue with 4-0 vicryl (NSL), on the rate of wound infection in rabbits that were contaminated with 10(6) Staphylococcus aureus.  There was no statistical significant increase in the rate of wound sepsis when electrocautery was used in a fashion producing minimal nonviable tissue compared to specific vessel ligation.  Electrocautery use for specific vessel hemostasis does not result in a higher wound infection rate in contaminated wounds.
Cefuroxime treatment failure of nontypable Haemophilus influenzae meningitis associated with alteration of penicillin-binding proteins.  A 10-year-old boy presented with nuchal rigidity and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leukocytosis initially and again on day 6 of intravenous cefuroxime therapy (200 mg/kg/day).  Both CSF specimens yielded nontypable beta-lactamase-negative Haemophilus influenzae that were susceptible by disk tests but relatively resistant to cefuroxime (MIC, 8- to 16-fold greater than that of control isolates).  To define the mechanism of resistance, the cefuroxime resistance marker was transformed to a susceptible H.  influenzae recipient; inactivation and permeability of beta-lactam substrate were tested and the penicillin-binding protein (PBP) profiles were examined.  Inactivation of beta-lactam substrate was not detected and reduced permeability was not found.  However, reduced beta-lactam binding to PBPs 4 and 5 was observed; 18- to 27-fold more penicillin and 2.5-to 4-fold more cefuroxime was required to saturate or block 50% of the binding sites of these PBPs, respectively.  Thus, reduced affinity of PBPs 4 and 5 for beta-lactam substrate appears to be the mechanism of cefuroxime resistance in this strain.  The reduced affinity of these targets appears to have contributed to the bacteriologic and clinical failure in this patient.
A rat model of prolonged pulmonary infection due to nontypable Haemophilus influenzae.  Pulmonary colonization and infection with nontypable (unencapsulated) Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) occurs commonly in the setting of chronic lung diseases.  Because the study of NTHI pulmonary infection in animal models has been limited by the rapid clearance of organisms, a model of persistent pulmonary infection was developed.  Groups of rats were inoculated by transtracheal instillation of viable NTHI suspended in broth or semisolid agar.  Some rats had received hexamethylphosphoramide (HMP) in drinking water before inoculation to cause respiratory epithelial mucosal damage.  Groups of animals were sacrificed serially.  Lungs were cultured quantitatively and their gross and microscopic anatomy examined.  NTHI was recovered in small quantities from few broth-inoculated rats after the first day of infection and in none after Day 7.  In contrast, NTHI was recovered from the majority of animals and in greater amounts through 2 wk after agar-borne inoculation.  HMP pretreatment further enhanced recovery through 4 wk after inoculation with an agar vehicle.  The pulmonary inflammatory reaction was brief in broth-inoculated rats.  The longer persistence of gross and histologic changes seen in agar-infected lungs paralleled the enhanced recovery of NTHI.  Abscess formation occurred at 7 to 14 days in some agar-inoculated animals.  Thus pulmonary inoculation of NTHI in a viscous vehicle resulted in perpetuation of infection and inflammatory response, and previous damage to respiratory mucosal epithelium induced by HMP further enhanced such infection.
A comparison of rapid enzyme immunoassay tests for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis cervical infections.  Two rapid enzyme immunoassay test kits were compared with culture for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis endocervical infections.  Endocervical samples for C trachomatis culture and the two enzyme immunoassay tests were evaluated from 502 county health department and Planned Parenthood patients.  The prevalence of infection in this population was 12%.  Sensitivity and specificity of the Abbott TestPack Chlamydia were 51.7% and 99.5%, respectively, and of the Kodak Surecell Chlamydia were 76.7% and 98.6%, respectively.  The positive and negative predictive values for TestPack were 93.9% and 93.8%, and for Surecell were 88.5% and 96.9%, respectively.  Additionally, an in vitro investigation was used to evaluate whether typical office staff (physicians, nurses, medical technicians, receptionists, and radiology technicians) were able to perform competently the tests in each kit.  Office personnel tested 12 dilutions of a C trachomatis stock sample or negative control sample as unknowns for each kit in the in vitro investigation.  There were no differences among office staff in performance when compared for each test kit.  Selective use of these enzyme immunoassay tests for high-risk patients in a family practice population that has a high prevalence of patients with C trachomatis infection may be helpful when rapid test results are required and cultures are not feasible.  After appropriate training, most physician office personnel were equally able to perform the enzyme immunoassay tests evaluated.
Prevention of a false diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis by synovial lymphocyte responses.  Three cases are reported in which a diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis might have been made erroneously from the history, but the enteric origin of the reactive arthritis was evident from synovial lymphocyte responses.  The importance of making the correct diagnosis and the avoidance of unwarranted spousal dysharmony is stressed.
Oral terbinafine versus griseofulvin in the treatment of moccasin-type tinea pedis.  The safety and effectiveness of oral terbinafine, 125 mg twice daily, and griseofulvin, 250 mg twice daily, in patients with moccasin-type tinea pedis were examined in a double-blind randomized trial.  At the end of the 6-week treatment period, both a clinical and mycologic cure or a mycologic cure with minimal signs of infection was noted in 12 (75%) of the 16 terbinafine-treated patients compared with only 3 (27%) of the 12 patients treated with griseofulvin.  The overall response rate 2 weeks after the completion of treatment was 88% in the terbinafine-treated group and 45% in the griseofulvin-treated group.  When contacted again 6 to 15 months after completion of the study, 94% of the terbinafine-treated patients reported sustained clearing of tinea pedis, and 88% of those with nail involvement at the time of treatment reported improvement.  In contrast, tinea pedis remained cured in only 30% of the patients who had received griseofulvin, and onychomycosis improved in only 14%.
Postneonatal infectious disease mortality: the French situation.  Mortality caused by infectious and parasitic diseases represents a limited part of all postneonatal deaths in France, which have been stable for the past decade.  This component is worthy of careful analysis because it is at least partially preventable.  Statistics are presented and interpreted, with discussion on which disorders should be included in assessing the impact of infection on morbidity and mortality.  Figures and international rankings change according to the inclusiveness of the definition chosen.  There is need for epidemiologic and statistical research to make comparisons of mortality more clear.  Morbidity is also important because of high incidence, frequent hospitalization, and a heavy social cost.  Policy and services in France that relate to control and treatment of infection are described, as are shortcomings that call for further efforts.
Effects of common illnesses on infants' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in Huascar (Lima), Peru.  To assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake, 131 Peruvian infants were observed longitudinally.  Home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly, and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations.  Mean (+/- SD) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 +/- 128 kcal/d (92.4 +/- 26.5 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 +/- 193 kcal/d (77.7 +/- 25.7 kcal.kg-1.d-1) for infants aged greater than 180 d.  Statistical models controlling for infant age, season of the year, and individual showed significant 5-6% decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever.  There were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding, total suckling time, or amount of breast-milk energy consumed.  By contrast, energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30% during diarrhea and fever, and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods.
Evidence for gonococcal transmission within a correctional system.  In a study to examine sexually transmissible disease occurring within a large correctional system where sexual activity is prohibited, 27 male inmates acquired culture-proven gonorrhea from in-jail sexual activity during a three-month period.  These results provide evidence to encourage inmate education about the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and to support condom distribution programs in correctional facilities.
The role of human immunodeficiency virus infection in pneumococcal bacteremia in San Francisco residents.  Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is an important risk factor for invasive pneumococcal disease, but information on clinical course and infecting serotypes is limited.  To help develop strategies to reduce the morbidity due to invasive pneumococcal disease, episodes of pneumococcal bacteremia were identified by retrospective review of microbiology records (November 1983-November 1987) at 10 San Francisco hospitals and, for patients 20-55 years old living in San Francisco, HIV antibody status was determined by review of medical records.  Pneumococcal isolates from one hospital were serotyped.  Of 294 patients with pneumococcal bacteremia identified, 32 (11%) had AIDS at the time pneumococcal bacteremia was diagnosed and another 43 (15%) were HIV-infected but did not have AIDS; 12 HIV-infected patients developed AIDS after the episode of pneumococcal bacteremia.  The rate of pneumococcal bacteremia in AIDS patients was estimated to be 9.4/1000 patient-years.  Serotypes of 27 (82%) of 33 pneumococcal isolates from HIV-infected patients and 107 (90%) from 119 patients without known HIV infection were among the 23 serotypes included in the currently available polysaccharide vaccine.  The rate of pneumococcal bacteremia is approximately 100-fold greater in AIDS patients in San Francisco than rates reported before the AIDS epidemic, but more than half the episodes of pneumococcal bacteremia in HIV-infected patients occurred in patients without AIDS.  Data on pneumococcal serotypes causing invasive disease in HIV-infected patients suggest that the current pneumococcal vaccine, if effective in this population, could provide significant protection against pneumococcal disease.
Levels of serum granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in patients with infections.  To clarify the physiologic roles of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in infectious states in vivo, we examined the serum levels of G-CSF in patients with infection.  Serum samples from 24 patients in the acute stage of infection (14 men and 10 women, age 65 to 101, without hematologic disorders), as well as samples from 32 age-matched normal elderly volunteers were investigated.  Sixteen of the initial 24 patients were reexamined after the recovery phase.  G-CSF levels were examined by quantitative enzyme immunoassay.  The G-CSF level in normal elderly controls, 25.3 +/- 19.7 pg/mL, was not different from that reported in other findings.  There was no statistically significant relationship between their G-CSF level and peripheral white blood cell count or neutrophilic granulocyte count.  The G-CSF level in the acute stage of infection was 731.8 +/- 895.0 pg/mL, with a range of 30 to 3,199 pg/mL.  There was no significant difference in G-CSF levels between patients with respiratory tract infection and those with urinary tract infection.  In all 16 cases examined, the serum G-CSF level in the acute stage of infection was significantly higher than that after recovery phase, the latter being the same as the level in normal elderly controls.  G-CSF must therefore play a significant role in human infectious states in vivo.
Amoxycillin plus probenecid versus doxycycline for treatment of erythema migrans borreliosis.  72 adults with erythema migrans (early Lyme borreliosis) were enrolled in a randomised prospective trial comparing amoxycillin 500 mg plus probenecid 500 mg three times a day with doxycycline 100 mg twice a day for 21 days.  These antibiotic regimens were chosen because of the known in-vitro sensitivity of Borrelia burgdorferi, the antibiotic tissue penetration, the pharmacokinetics of the drugs, and because the organism can disseminate early in the course of infection.  72 patients were evaluable (35 in the doxycycline group and 37 in the amoxycillin/probenecid group).  The two regimens were equally effective for treatment of erythema migrans.  Mild fatigue or arthralgia were the only post-treatment complaints, which resolved within 6 months.  None of the patients needed further antibiotic treatment for Lyme borreliosis.
Infectious diseases as a Canadian subspecialty, with projections to the year 2000.  Infectious diseases is a relatively new subspecialty in Canada.  During the past decade, however, important advances have been made.  These include the formation of the Canadian Infectious Diseases Society and the development of the first Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons examinations in the subspecialty of infectious diseases.  The majority of Canadians training for practice in the field of infectious diseases are now enrolled in programs in Canada.  Despite predictions in the United States of an excess of physicians who specialize in infectious diseases, such a situation has not occurred in Canada.  More physicians with training in infectious diseases will be required in Canada in the next decade to fill positions in patient care, microbiology (for individuals with both clinical and laboratory training), research, epidemiology and infection control, programs related to human immunodeficiency virus infections, geographic and international medicine, the pharmaceutical industry, and education and administration.  In Canada, the extent to which infectious diseases physicians are involved in these areas varies from that in the United States.  This review suggests a continued need for physicians with appropriate training in infectious diseases.
Pelvic pain and infections.  Infectious etiologies of both acute and chronic pelvic pain are common and may involve multiple organ systems.  In the evaluation of the acute pain, it is important to remember that rapidity of diagnosis is important because of the possibility of significant morbidity and even death if a condition is not attended to rapidly.  In recent years, laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis has provided a better understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these infections, as well as possible therapeutic maneuvers.  The evaluation of chronic pelvic pain requires a thorough attempt at careful diagnosis with minds open to the possibility that other organ systems besides the genital tract may be involved.  Laparoscopy also may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the evaluation of the sequelae of pelvic inflammation leading to chronic pelvic pain.  All therapeutic modalities that are instituted on the basis of the diagnostic evaluation must take into consideration that a strong emotional component is generally associated with chronic pelvic pain.  Such components must be addressed in order to achieve the best possible results for the patient.
Replacement of an aortic valve cusp after neonatal endocarditis.  Septic arthritis developed in a neonate after an infection of her hand.  Despite medical and surgical treatment endocarditis of her aortic valve developed and the resultant regurgitation required emergency surgery.  At operation a new valve cusp was fashioned from preserved calf pericardium.  Nine years later she was well and had full exercise tolerance with minimal aortic regurgitation.
Ascending cholangitis: surgery versus endoscopic or percutaneous drainage.  A retrospective review of 61 patients with calculous cholangitis was carried out.  There were 31 men and 30 women and their mean age was 75.8 years.  All patients had abdominal pain, 87% had chills and fever, 65% had clinical jaundice, 23% were in shock, and 54% had positive blood cultures.  Because intravenous hydration and antibiotics did not help, 33 patients underwent surgery, 25 patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy (EP), and three patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct (PTD).  Morbidity in the surgery group included two wound infections, one respiratory failure, and one renal failure.  Morbidity in the EP-PTD group was one case of arterial bleeding requiring surgery and one of pancreatitis treated conservatively.  Two patients (6%) died in the surgery group, one of sepsis and the other of cardiorespiratory arrest.  In the EP-PTD group nine patients (32%) died of sepsis and multisystem organ failure.  These patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery and thus repeat EP-PTD was carried out.  Cholangitis persisted, and retained common bile duct stones with sepsis was the cause of death.  Thus when initial EP or PTD is unsuccessful, surgical exploration of the common bile duct should be carried out to control sepsis.
A resurgence of acute rheumatic fever in a mid-South children's hospital.  A resurgence of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) has been reported in many areas of the United States in recent years.  We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of inpatients with a new diagnosis of ARF from 1982 through 1988 at a children's hospital that serves a six-state referral area in the mid-South.  Thirty patients were identified, 21 of whom were seen in 1987 (13) and 1988 (8).  The rate of new cases of ARF per 1000 hospital discharges (0.7) was significantly greater for 1987 and 1988 than it was (0.15) from 1982 through 1986.  Patients with recently diagnosed ARF were predominantly from nonurban areas, and polyarthritis was the most common recent major manifestation.  Reasons for the resurgence of ARF in the US, including the mid-South, are unclear, but our experience serves to support recently published guidelines for the diagnosis and management of streptococcal pharyngitis in light of this resurgence of ARF.
Disseminated Conidiobolus infection with endocarditis in a cocaine abuser.  A crack cocaine abuser developed disseminated infection caused by a species of Conidiobolus not known to cause disease in vertebrates.  The fungus gained entry via skin abrasions on the lower extremities, spread through the hematogenous route, and caused endocarditis.  There was evidence of fungal infection in the lungs, heart, kidneys, skeletal muscles, and brain.  An additional complication was extensive rhabdomyolysis, with a marked elevation of creatine kinase of up to 1.2 million U/L.
Fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on Escherichia coli meningitis.  Pseudomeningitis is the demonstration of microorganisms from the cerebrospinal fluid by stain or culture in a patient with symptoms suggesting meningitis.  This is a report of fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on a case of nosocomial Escherichia coli meningitis resulting from a neurosurgical procedure.  Critical care personnel need to be aware of the possibility of pseudomeningitis with or without associated meningitis in the appropriate setting.
Outbreak of spontaneous staphylococcal arthritis and osteitis in mice.  Staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacterial species found in association with nongonococcal bacterial arthritis in humans.  We present here the first description of spontaneous bacterial arthritis and osteitis in mice.  Clinically, the most obvious findings were swelling and/or ankylosis of hindpaws and nodose changes of the tail.  The prevalence of arthritis and osteitis ranged from 0% to greater than 50% of the mice studied, depending on the mouse strain.  The most prominent histopathologic feature of the arthritis was hypertrophy of the synovial tissue and destruction of cartilage and underlying bone.  Most of the S aureus-infected mice displayed an identical phage type, which was also the only S aureus phage type found in skin isolates from clinically healthy mice.  However, a few S aureus isolates were not typeable, indicating that an additional strain(s) might cause bacterial arthritis in mice.
Recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the C9 component of complement. First case of C9 deficiency in Europe.  We describe the first cases, to our knowledge, of C9 deficiency in Europe that were detected in a Swiss family, of which two members--one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal C9 levels--experienced bacterial meningitis.  The index patient, a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of 23 years, presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis.  No impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found.  Complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the C9 component, while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity (measured using the CH50 assay) was only slightly reduced.  A family study revealed complete C9 deficiency in the patient's healthy brother and half-normal C9 concentrations in his sister, his son (who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis), and his niece, consistent with an inherited C9 deficiency.  This first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete C9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial, especially neisserial, infections.
The many faces and phases of borreliosis. I. Lyme disease [published erratum appears in J Am Acad Dermatol 1991 Apr;24(4):663]   Lyme disease is increasingly being reported throughout the United States and many parts of the world.  Borrelia burgdorferi, the etiologic agent of Lyme disease, is a spirochete that, not unlike the treponema of syphilis, can cause a spectrum of disease from the initial skin lesion, through widely varied symptoms and signs, to chronic neurologic and arthritic disability.  The borrelial spirochete and Lyme disease are the subject of this review.  A subsequent article will review other definite and possible cutaneous manifestations of borreliosis.
A clinical trial of topical terbinafine (a new allylamine antifungal) in the treatment of tinea pedis.  Twenty-three patients were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind trial of terbinafine 1% cream compared with placebo vehicle in the treatment of tinea pedis.  Of the 20 patients who were evaluated for efficacy, 10 received terbinafine and 10 received placebo.  Except for the terbinafine-treated patients being an average of 11 years older than the patients receiving placebo and the median duration of disease being 6 weeks longer in the placebo group, the two groups were demographically and clinically similar.  Results of mycologic tests and clinical findings showed terbinafine to be significantly more effective than placebo in the treatment of tinea pedis.  Significantly more terbinafine-treated patients than placebo-treated patients showed conversion to negative culture and microscopy at end of therapy and a significant reduction in scored signs and symptoms.  Overall efficacy at follow-up (combined mycologic and clinical findings) was also significantly greater in the terbinafine group (78%) than in the placebo group (zero) (p less than 0.001).  Unexplained elevation of liver function test results was noted in three placebo-treated patients and in one terbinafine-treated patient, but these changes were not considered clinically relevant or drug related.
A study of immunoglobulin G in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the Log IgG-Index. A comparison and diagnostic applications.  Cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin G from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods: isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding, and quantitative measurement of IgG and albumin for the formulation of a Log IgG-Index.  A comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of IgG showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall, with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the Log IgG-Index, but also a higher specificity, with a false positive rate of 0% versus 3.5%.  In addition, of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 (58%) were positive by the Log IgG-Index.  Of the 1007 patients studied, 206 had multiple sclerosis (MS), and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95% of clinically definite cases, with a 90% detection rate overall.  The Log IgG-Index was positive in only 67% of clinically definite cases, with an overall 59% detection rate.  Thus with the exceptions noted above, local synthesis of IgG as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating, inflammatory, infectious and postinfectious disorders.  Our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis, and better than those for evoked potentials.  Where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct.  For the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging, isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative.  We would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of IgG abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes.
Impetigo. Current etiology and comparison of penicillin, erythromycin, and cephalexin therapies.  We attempted to determine the causative bacterial pathogens of impetigo in children in our area, to compare the effectiveness of three frequently used oral antimicrobial treatment regimens, and to correlate the antimicrobial sensitivity of the bacterial isolates with clinical responses to treatment.  Seventy-three children with impetigo were randomly assigned to receive penicillin V potassium or cephalexin monohydrate, both administered in dosages of 40 to 50 mg/kg per day, or erythromycin estolate administered in a dosage of 30 to 40 mg/kg per day.  All drugs were given in three divided doses for 10 days.  Treatment failure was defined as persistence of lesions 8 to 10 days after initiation of drug therapy as determined by examiners blinded to the treatment therapies.  Forty-five (62%) cultures showed Staphylococcus aureus only, 14 (19%) showed S aureus and group A beta-hemolytic streptococci, six (8%) showed group A beta-hemolytic streptococci only, and eight (11%) showed no growth or other organisms.  Treatment failure occurred in six (24%) of 25 patients treated with penicillin V, one (4%) of 25 patients treated with erythromycin estolate, and no patients treated with cephalexin.  We conclude that S aureus is the most common cause of impetigo in children in our study population, that cephalexin is the most effective treatment, that erythromycin estolate is nearly equally effective and may be preferred on a cost-effectiveness basis, and that penicillin V is inadequate for treatment of this infection.
Comparison of species distribution and antimicrobial susceptibility of aerobic actinomycetes from clinical specimens.  To compare the species distribution and antimicrobial susceptibility of aerobic actinomycetes, we evaluated 366 isolates referred to the Centers for Disease Control from October 1985 through February 1988.  We used conventional biochemical tests to identify the various species.  Four species accounted for 191 (52%) of aerobic actinomycete isolates: Nocardia asteroides (98 isolates), Actinomadura madurae (42 isolates), Streptomyces griseus (28 isolates), and Nocardia brasiliensis (23 isolates).  Sputum and wounds were the most common sources.  No isolate was resistant to amikacin, no N.  brasiliensis isolate was resistant to sulfamethoxazole or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and no A.  madurae isolate was resistant to ceftriaxone or imipenem.  In summary, our findings show that unusual species of aerobic actinomycetes can cause infection, colonization, or both and that antimicrobial resistance varies markedly by species.
Infections in alcoholic patients.  Alcoholic patients have an increased susceptibility to certain bacterial infections.  Among the more important of these infections are pneumonia, tuberculosis, spontaneous peritonitis, and bacteremia.  This susceptibility is caused by alteration of immune function and mechanical defenses and are the sequel of chronic alcoholism, most notably cirrhosis.  In many infections, morbidity is increased in alcoholics, with the course of the illness being more severe and complications more frequent.  Assessment of the alcoholic patient with suspected infection should, therefore, be thorough and treatment prompt.
Soleus-specific myopathy induced by passive stretching under local tetanus.  Twenty-four adult albino rats were injected with tetanus toxin into the right gastrocnemius muscle and then subjected to sustained dorsiflexion of the right ankle joint for 2 to 14 days.  Histologic examinations of the soleus after this procedure showed myopathic changes, characterized by variations in fiber diameters, myonecrosis with opaque fibers, interstitial fibrosis, and small groups of regenerated fibers.  Electron microscopy revealed derangement of T-tubules immediately adjacent to the sarcolemma in the early degenerative stage.  The size and wet weight of soleus increased compared to that of the control side between 2 and 5 days post-tetanus.  Serum GOT, LDH, and creatine kinase (CK) levels were elevated especially in the early degenerative stages.  Peri- and endomysial fibrosis developed gradually from about 3 days post-tetanus.  Pathomechanisms inducing these changes were discussed.
Buruli ulcer in Benin   In a study of 28 patients with Mycobacterium ulcerans infection (Buruli ulcer) in Oinhi, Benin, it became clear that the disease can regress as well as progress, and that patients can have lesions of different stages simultaneously.  A system of disease staging was introduced (I = subcutaneous nodule; II = cellulitis; III = ulceration; IV = scar formation).  Research to find an effective treatment for this crippling disease is urgently needed.
Endophthalmitis after placement of a Molteno implant.  I report a case of early postoperative endophthalmitis following placement of a Molteno implant.  Excellent results were obtained by immediate removal of the implant and surgical management of the infection, followed by replacement of the implant.
Febrile infants less than eight weeks old. Predictors of infection.  Febrile infants less than eight weeks old frequently are admitted and receive parenteral antibiotics for treatment of possible sepsis.  The authors assess 52 infants less than eight weeks old with a rectal temperature of 38.1 degrees C or higher as having either a readily identifiable focus of infection by physical examination, appearing "toxic" without a focus, or appearing well.  The authors screened patients by using white blood cell (WBC) counts, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), and chest radiographs in addition to blood, cerebrospinal fluid and urine cultures.  The authors found a 9.6% incidence of bacteria in the 52 infants evaluated, with a 4.3% incidence in those febrile infants who appeared well.  Five patients had positive blood cultures with Group B B Hemolytic streptococcus (four patients), and Viridans streptococcus (one patient).  A clinical assessment of toxicity and a total band count greater than or equal to 0.5 x 10(3) cells/uL together were sensitive indicators of bacteremia, as were toxicity and a positive CRP.  A "toxic" appearance, a WBC count greater than or equal to 15 x 10(3) cells/uL and an ESR greater than 30 were specific indicators of bacteria.  Based on these data, identification of bacteremia in febrile infants may be possible with clinical assessment and screening laboratory tests.  Because of the relatively small sampling size of this study, the authors feel that evaluation of a larger number of patients is warranted to evaluate these sensitivities in a more diffuse patient population.
Listerial myocarditis in cardiac transplantation.  Clinical signs of heart failure developed in two cardiac transplant recipients and were interpreted initially as graft rejection.  Morphologic examination of explanted hearts revealed myocarditis with abscess formation and necrosis consistent with a bacterial process; Listeria monocytogenes was isolated from myocardial tissue in the first case and from blood in both.  The first patient also developed signs of meningoencephalitis, but the second had no signs of infection outside the heart.  Antimicrobial therapy and retransplantation were successful in eradicating listeriosis.  The differential diagnosis of heart failure in cardiac transplant recipients includes infectious myocarditis due to L.  monocytogenes.
Confocal microscopic detection of human immunodeficiency virus RNA-producing cells.  A central anomaly in the pathogenesis of AIDS is that few actively infected CD4+ cells (1 in 10(4)-10(5) have been detected in the peripheral blood, even though dramatic depletion (often greater than 90%) of CD4+ cells is the hallmark of disease progression.  A sensitive, 35S-based human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) RNA in situ hybridization technique was coupled with a new detection method, confocal laser scanning microscopy, to examine transcriptionally active HIV-infected cells from individuals at different disease stages.  In 35 symptomatic HIV-infected individuals (AIDS and AIDS related complex), an average of 1 in 350 mononuclear cells produced HIV RNA.  In contrast, in an asymptomatic group of 30 individuals, an average of 1 in 2000 mononuclear cells produced HIV RNA.  These data, obtained using this improved detection method, suggest there are more HIV RNA-producing cells in HIV-infected individuals than previously reported.  In addition, increased numbers of HIV transcribing cells were found to correlate with declining clinical condition as assessed by Karnofsky performance score.  These data suggest that viremia per se may account for the pathologic consequences in HIV infection.
Reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese. A university experience.  Patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications.  To evaluate outcome following revisional procedures, we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at UCLA between April 1986 and May 1989.  Twenty-five women (78%) and 7 men (22%) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations (2.4 per patient) for complications of prior obesity surgery.  Indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements (12 patients) and weight-related problems (11 patients).  In contrast, indications for the patients' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction (41%), intra-abdominal sepsis (12%), and gastrointestinal bleeding (6%).  Following initial revision, 23 patients (71.8%) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died (12.5%).  While initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems, final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent, life-threatening complications.  Revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered, and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits.
Epidemiology of infection by nontuberculous mycobacteria IX. Evidence for two DNA homology groups among small plasmids in Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium intracellulare, and Mycobacterium scrofulaceum.  A 12.9 kb plasmid, pVT2, from a clinical Mycobacterium avium isolate, MD1, was cloned and radiolabeled for use as a DNA probe to examine the relatedness of plasmids in M.  avium complex.  That probe hybridized with plasmids isolated from M.  avium complex strains from the environment (7 of 16) and from non-acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (10 of 17) and AIDS (5 of 6) clinical isolates.  The similarity of plasmids from the environment with those from patients supports the hypothesis that the environment is a source of human M.  avium complex infection.  More striking was the observation that pVT2 hybridized with every plasmid (13 of 13 clinical and 5 of 5 environmental isolates) of 13.5 kb or smaller.  A second probe, consisting of a 15.3 kb plasmid (pLR7) from another clinical isolate of the M.  avium complex, hybridized with plasmids of 15.3 to 25 kb from environmental and clinical (AIDS and non-AIDS) isolates.  There was no hybridization between pVT2 and pLR7.  Thus, these two probes define two different groups of small mycobacterial plasmids.
High-dose phenylephrine infusion in the hemodynamic support of septic shock.  A 75-year-old man with hyperdynamic septic shock and vasodilation was successfully supported hemodynamically for 88.5 hours through the use of a continuous infusion of phenylephrine at dosages up to 360 micrograms/min.  The only other vasoactive compound administered was dopamine at a dosage of 3.4 micrograms/kg/min.  Hemodynamic evaluation indicated improvements in mean arterial pressure, cardiac output, and oxygen transport parameters during the period of hemodynamic support, which did not indicate a detrimental effect on perfusion of vital organs and tissues despite the use of this vasoconstrictor.  Phenylephrine's pharmacologic properties may represent an advantage for its use as a vasoconstrictor over catecholamines such as norepinephrine and dopamine, particularly in patients who develop tachyarrhythmias with these agents.  The pharmacology, dosage, and appropriate monitoring of therapy with phenylephrine in patients with septic shock are discussed.
Prevalence and diagnosis of Legionella pneumonia: a 3-year prospective study with emphasis on application of urinary antigen detection.  During a 3-year period the frequency of legionellosis in hospitalized patients with community-acquired and nosocomial pneumonias was 3.4% (23/684 cases) and 5.9% (33/559), respectively.  Of the diagnostic tests evaluated, detection of Legionella pneumophila serogroup 1 antigen in urine had the highest sensitivity, with 86% of culture-proven cases being positive.  Sensitivities of serologic tests and examination of respiratory secretions (culture and direct immunofluorescence) were 36% and 26%, respectively.  The diagnostic value of serology and of examination of respiratory secretions can be low when specimens are obtained and processed under the typical conditions of hospitalization.  Urinary antigen detection represents an important diagnostic addition, and examination of postmortem lung tissue from fatal cases with pneumonia is an important adjunct for estimating the prevalence of legionellosis and for assessing the effectiveness of premortem diagnostic tests.
Septic pulmonary emboli. A rare cause of bilateral pneumothorax in drug abusers.  An intravenous drug abuser presented with bilateral pneumothorax.  This is a previously unreported (to our knowledge) complication of septic pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided endocarditis.  This possibility must be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax in drug addicts.
Efficacy and tolerability of topical terbinafine in the treatment of tinea cruris.  Thirty men with clinical and mycologic evidence of tinea cruris were enrolled in a controlled, randomized, double-blind trial comparing terbinafine 1% cream and its cream vehicle as placebo.  Patients applied the test medications to the affected area twice daily for 2 weeks.  Therapeutic response was evaluable in 18 patients after each week of treatment and at a follow-up visit 2 weeks after therapy ended.  At each visit, terbinafine was found to be more effective than the cream vehicle in the reduction of the signs and symptoms of infection and in the conversion of culture and microscopy findings to negative or normal.  At the end of treatment, therapy was effective in 67% of the nine terbinafine-treated patients compared with only 11% of the nine placebo-treated patients.  At the follow-up examination, efficacy rates were 78% in the terbinafine treatment group and 33% in the placebo group--a difference of borderline statistical significance (p = 0.077).  Possible reasons for this result may include the higher incidence of chronic disease in the terbinafine group and the large number of patients who were classified as delayed exclusions because of negative initial culture for dermatophytes.  No side effects or significant alterations in laboratory or hematologic tests were observed in either treatment group.
Apical closure of mature molar roots with the use of calcium hydroxide.  Calcium hydroxide may induce apical root closure in affected mature teeth as well as in immature teeth.  Once an apical hard tissue barrier is formed, a permanent root canal filling can be safely condensed.  Two cases are described in which calcium hydroxide induced apical root closure in mature molar teeth where the apical constriction was lost because of chronic inflammatory process.
Amputation or limb-lengthening for partial or total absence of the fibula.  Thirty-two patients who had ablation of the foot by the Syme or Boyd technique for partial or total absence of the fibula, with subsequent fitting of a prosthesis, were compared with eleven patients who had lengthening of the lower limb by the Wagner method, to assess the long-term results of each procedure.  The final results were evaluated on the basis of pain, limp, limb-length discrepancy, level of physical activity, and satisfaction of the patient.  Of the thirty-two patients who had an amputation, twenty-eight (88 per cent) had a satisfactory result, compared with only six (55 per cent) of the eleven patients who had limb-lengthening.  The amount of inequality between the lower limbs was classified as follows: Group I--the foot of the shorter extremity was at the distal third of the contralateral, normal limb, and the percentage of shortening was 15 per cent or less; Group II--the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the middle third of the contralateral, normal limb, and the percentage of shortening was between 16 and 25 per cent; and Group III--the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the proximal third of the contralateral, normal limb, and the percentage of shortening was greater than 26 per cent.  Lengthening was best suited for patients in Group I who had stable hips, knees, and ankles and a plantigrade foot.  Patients in Groups II and III were best served by ablation of the foot and fitting of a prosthesis.
Infectious intracranial aneurysms: comparison of groups with and without endocarditis.  A series of 12 patients with infectious intracranial aneurysms is presented, and a number of unusual features of the disorder are emphasized.  A comparison of characteristics of the aneurysms and clinical course is made between patients with and without infective endocarditis.  Most of the unusual characteristics of infectious aneurysms, including rare locations, causative organisms, and predisposing medical conditions, occurred in the group without endocarditis.  The relationship of atypical features of infectious aneurysms to the etiology of aneurysm formation is discussed, and an approach to treatment is presented.
Neurologic abnormalities in a patient with human ehrlichiosis.  Human ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne rickettsial disease characterized by fever, headache, myalgias, anorexia, and occasionally rash.  In our patient, changes in mental status, upper motor neuron signs, cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, and increased serum protein levels were found in association with serologically confirmed ehrlichiosis and were most likely due to vasculitis involving the central nervous system.  Intraleukocytic inclusions, although observed in our case, have been infrequently found in other reported cases of ehrlichiosis.
Syphilis in adults.  This article reviews the clinical manifestations of syphilis, diagnostic tests that might help to diagnose accurately the disease, and current recommendations for therapy.  The association of syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus infection raises additional questions related to transmission, diagnosis, and therapy of both diseases.
A small animal model of human Helicobacter pylori active chronic gastritis.  Isolation of a spiral-shaped bacterium closely related to Helicobacter pylori from the cat stomach made it possible to investigate new small animal models of gastric infection.  Pure cultures of this bacterium, provisionally named "Helicobacter felis," were fed to germ-free mice.  The organism colonized the stomach in large numbers in mucus and deep in the gastric pits and showed the same gastric trophism found with H.  pylori.  Significant histopathology was seen in all H.  felis-infected mice.  At 2 weeks postinfection, an acute inflammatory response was seen composed primarily of eosinophils and neutrophils.  At 3 weeks, the polymorphonuclear response was more pronounced with large numbers of neutrophils in some areas forming small microabscesses.  Lymphocytes also increased in number.  By 8 weeks, several relatively large lymphoid nodules were present in the submucosa.  Multiple small microabscesses were still present in the pyloric mucosa.  This is the first animal model of bacterial gastritis to be described that shows progression from acute inflammation to persistent acute on chronic inflammation (active chronic) as is seen in human infection with H.  pylori.
Use of intrapleural streptokinase in the treatment of thoracic empyema.  The incidence of pleural effusions in bacterial pneumonia may exceed 40%, a factor that may be related to increased morbidity and mortality.  Options in the treatment of complicated pleural effusions or empyema, when unresponsive to closed tube drainage, include repositioning of the indwelling tube thoracostomy or insertion of additional chest tubes, instillation of intrapleural streptokinase, and surgical intervention.  The authors describe the course of three patients wherein the use of intrapleural streptokinase was efficacious in effecting prompt drainage of previously inadequately evacuated empyema, thus eliminating the necessity for further invasive intervention.
Prostacyclin but not phentolamine increases oxygen consumption and skin microvascular blood flow in patients with sepsis and respiratory failure.  Inadequate tissue oxygenation may occur in critically ill patients with sepsis despite an apparently adequate O2 transport (QO2), and this may contribute to the development of an O2 debt and also to multiple organ failure.  It has been shown that increasing QO2 by infusing a vasodilator may reveal this O2 debt in septic patients.  To investigate whether the site of action of vasodilators may be of importance in unmasking such an O2 debt, we administered prostacyclin, a prostaglandin with a preferential effect on the microcirculation, and phentolamine, an arteriolar vasodilator, in 11 patients studied during the first 48 hours after the onset of sepsis, and compared their effect on whole body oxygen consumption (VO2) and skin microvascular blood flow.  The results demonstrated that increasing QO2 by prostacyclin but not by phentolamine significantly increases VO2 in critically ill patients with sepsis.  The site of action of vasodilators may therefore play an important role in their ability to unmask an O2 debt.
Limited efficacy of a Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccine in Alaska Native infants. The Alaska H. influenzae Vaccine Study Group   BACKGROUND.  The prevention of invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b disease requires a vaccine that is effective when administered during the first six months of life.  The infants of Alaska Natives are at particularly high risk of invasive H.  influenzae type b disease.  METHODS.  To evaluate the protective efficacy of a H.  influenzae type b polysaccharide-diphtheria toxoid conjugate vaccine (polyribosylribitol phosphate-diphtheria toxoid [PRP-D]), we enrolled 2102 Alaska Native infants in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which either the vaccine or a saline placebo was administered at approximately two, four, and six months of age.  RESULTS.  After 3969 subject-years of follow-up and 32 episodes of H.  influenzae type b disease, the overall incidence of invasive disease was not reduced significantly in the vaccinated subjects (6.0 cases per 1000 patient-years), as compared with the placebo controls (9.6) or with other Alaska Native infants (6.0).  After one, two, or three doses there was no significant protective efficacy with the vaccine; after three doses the efficacy was only 35 percent (95 percent confidence interval, -57 to 73).  The lack of efficacy was not related to the age at onset of disease, age at immunization, type of disease, degree of Alaska Native heritage, time after immunization, or year of the study.  Levels of H.  influenzae type b anticapsular antibody in recipients of the vaccine became significantly higher than levels in those who received placebo only after the second and third doses.  Even after the third dose, only 48 percent of the vaccinated infants had antibody levels of more than 0.1 microgram per milliliter (geometric mean titer, 0.18).  Antibody responses did not vary with the level of maternally acquired antibody, degree of Alaska Native ancestry, or age at time of the first or second immunizations, but they increased with increasing age at time of the third dose (P less than 0.001).  CONCLUSIONS.  We found no evidence that the PRP-D vaccine provides significant protection, at least for Alaska Native infants, against invasive diseases caused by H.  influenzae type b.  The ineffectiveness of the vaccine paralleled its limited immunogenicity.
Short-term chemoprophylaxis with ceftizoxime vs. five-day aminoglycoside with metronidazole in 'contaminated' lower gastrointestinal surgery.  In a prospective, open, randomized controlled trial, 173 patients requiring surgery for potentially "contaminated" lower gastrointestinal surgery were allocated to receive either two doses of ceftizoxime (2 gm) with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm) or gentamicin 3 mg/kg/day for five days with one dose of metronidazole (1.5 gm).  Eighty-nine patients received ceftizoxime and 84 patients received gentamicin.  The groups were comparable with respect to diagnosis, procedure, type of anastomosis, and wound closure.  The incidence of withdrawal due to failure to respond to the study drug (11.5 percent) was equivalent in the two groups.  There was no difference in the overall incidence of postsurgical infection between the ceftizoxime and metronidazole group (22.2 percent) and the gentamicin and metronidazole group (25.7 percent).  The incidence of wound infection (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 6.9 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 10 percent) and deep sepsis (ceftizoxime and metronidazole, 15.3 percent; gentamicin and metronidazole, 15.7 percent) was similar.
The role of mucous glycoproteins in the rheologic properties of cystic fibrosis sputum.  Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by excessive amounts of thick and tenacious mucous secretions that obstruct organ ducts and passages.  In the respiratory tract this is associated with chronic infection resulting in the hypersecretion of purulent sputum, which the patient finds difficult to clear.  We have studied the rheologic properties of purulent sputum from six patients with CF and five patients with chronic bronchitis to assess whether CF is associated with increased sputum viscoelasticity.  In addition, we have isolated the major rheologic determinants, mucous glycoproteins, from CF and chronic bronchitis sputa and, using a magnetic microrheometer, investigated the possibility that the altered properties of mucus in CF are associated with abnormalities in these glycoproteins.  Creep compliance analysis indicated that the CF sputa possessed raised levels of both elasticity (p less than 0.01) and viscosity (p less than 0.01).  These increases in both rheologic parameters were found to be associated with increases in the DNA content (p less than 0.01) and dry weight (p less than 0.05).  Mucous glycoproteins were isolated from CF and chronic bronchitis sputum samples by gel filtration on Sepharose CL4B, followed by concentration to form 8% wt/wt gels.  In the absence of other sputum components, no abnormality in the rheologic properties of CF mucin gels could be detected.  However, when DNA was added, the CF gels responded with increases in both elasticity and viscosity of as much as 30% (p less than 0.05), an effect not observed in the chronic bronchitis gels.  These results suggest that a subtle abnormality may exist in CF mucous glycoproteins and that this could have a role in the altered physical properties of mucous secretions in CF.
Helicobacter pylori and gastric carcinoma. Serum antibody prevalence in populations with contrasting cancer risks.  This investigation examined the correlation between Helicobacter pylori (HP) infection, as reflected in immunoglobulin G serum antibodies, and the risk of gastric cancer.  Serum samples were obtained from populations with contrasting gastric cancer risks.  The highest prevalence of HP infection, 93%, was observed in the adult population at highest gastric cancer risk, the residents of Pasto, Colombia.  In the lower risk Colombian city of Cali, a 63% overall prevalence rate was found.  Both children and adults were sampled in New Orleans, Louisiana, where gastric cancer rates are high for blacks but not for whites.  The prevalence of HP infection was significantly higher in black than in white adults, 70% versus 43%, P = 0.0001.  A higher prevalence was also detected in black compared with white children, 49% versus 32%, P = 0.01; however, an even greater disparity was noted when comparing children from two hospitals, regardless of race, which serve different socioeconomic groups.  A prevalence rate of 54% was found at Charity Hospital compared with 24% (P = 0.0001) at Children's Hospital.  Our findings indicate that socioeconomic conditions, known to influence gastric cancer risk, are also important determinants of HP infection.
The incidence of deep vein thrombosis after cementless and cemented knee replacement.  The incidence of deep vein thrombosis in 244 patients who had total knee replacement has been studied.  In 120 the prosthesis was cemented and in 124 it was cementless.  In all cases the replacement was primary and a porous-coated prosthesis with a porous-coated central tibial stem was used.  Deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by venography, and pulmonary embolism by perfusion scanning.  The incidence of deep vein thrombosis in the cementless knees (23.8%) and in the cemented (25%) was approximately the same.  The only significant predisposing factors for deep vein thrombosis in both groups were obesity, prolonged postoperative immobilisation, previous venous disease and hyperlipidaemia.
Total hip arthroplasty with cement. A long-term radiographic analysis in patients who are older than fifty and younger than fifty years.  The long-term performance of a total of 712 Charnley and STH prostheses was evaluated as a function of the patient's age (older than fifty years or younger than fifty years) and of the underlying disease (osteoarthrosis, rheumatoid arthritis, or avascular necrosis).  In patients who were older than fifty years, there were lower incidences of continuous cement-bone radiolucency about the acetabular component (p = 0.04), wear of the polyethylene acetabular cup (p = 0.03), and resorption of the calcar (p = 0.03).  However, larger percentages of younger patients had rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis.  In the cohort of patients who had osteoarthrosis, the performance of the prosthesis did not differ significantly between older and younger patients; therefore we attributed the differences that were observed to the disease--that is, to rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis.
Studies of the porcine intestinal calcitriol receptor in pseudo-vitamin D deficiency rickets type I.  1.  Calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3) concentrations in plasma of humans and pigs with pseudo-vitamin D deficiency rickets type I (PVDRI) have been reported to be significantly lower than in normal subjects and animals.  Sometimes, however, calcitriol concentrations are relatively high in these subjects and animals (50-80 pmol/l) and nevertheless clinical symptoms of rickets develop.  We have studied whether or not the development of rachitic lesions in piglets with PVDRI is due to altered binding properties of the intestinal calcitriol receptor in addition to the defective renal production of calcitriol.  PVDRI piglets with clinical and biochemical symptoms of rickets (hypocalcaemia, increased activity of alkaline phosphatase) and with calcitriol concentrations in plasma of 83.7 +/- 4.2 pmol/l (n = 7) were used.  They were compared with unaffected piglets with normal calcitriol concentrations (178.0 +/- 17.7 pmol/l, n = 9).  2.  The equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) of the receptor in the PVDRI piglets (0.31 +/- 0.05 nmol/l) and in control piglets (0.33 +/- 0.05 nmol/l) and the maximum binding capacity (Bmax.) (674 +/- 103 and 719 +/- 122 fmol/mg of protein, respectively) were not different (n = 9).  3.  The association rate constant (kass) at 4 degrees C [0.15 x 10(7) and 0.24 x 10(7) (mol/l)-1 min-1] and the dissociation rate constant (kdiss) (0.40 x 10(-3) and 0.48 x 10(-3) min-1; half-life of dissociation = 24.1 and 28.9 h, respectively) were also not different between diseased and control piglets.
High lumbar disc degeneration. Incidence and etiology.  Three hundred seventy-nine consecutive magnetic resonance images (MRIs) with dual-echo images of the entire lumbar spine were reviewed by the authors.  All 379 patients presented with back pain and/or leg pain; they were interviewed and examined.  Pain drawings were completed by all.  There were 42 patients (11.1%) with disc pathologies involving T12-L1, L1-2, and/or L2-3 levels.  Six patients (1.6%) had isolated disc degeneration and/or herniations limited only to these high lumbar segments.  The remaining 36 patients had degenerative changes of the higher discs with variable involvement of the lower lumbar discs.  Out of 12 spondylolistheses of L5 on S1, 7 had high disc pathologies at one or more levels presenting as skipped lesions; more severe high disc lesions were noted in Grade II slips.  Isolated high disc degeneration is often associated with pre-existing abnormalities such as end-plate defects, Scheuermann's disease, limbus vertebra, and so forth, and stressful cumulative work activities such as in construction workers, airplane mechanics, and so forth.  High disc degeneration was noted above or below previous fractures.  High disc involvement with diffuse changes in lower lumbar spine was more commonly found in ascending fashion in older age groups, and in patients who have had previous lower lumbar spine surgeries, prior fusions in particular.  Our findings suggest that altered mechanics are associated with the high lumbar disc pathologies.
Early facial reanimation following radical parotid and temporal bone tumor resections.  A retrospective study of 35 patients who underwent early facial reanimation following extirpative parotid and temporal bone surgery requiring facial nerve sacrifice was performed.  Regional facial reanimation performed immediately or within several days included 16 patients who underwent temporalis muscle transposition and 27 who underwent gold weight or eyespring lid reanimation with lower lid tightening.  Simultaneous nerve grafts or nerve crossover procedures were performed in 22 patients.  The authors' favored approaches to facial reanimation are discussed, with an emphasis on the value of early reanimation using properly selected techniques.
Effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia.  Dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders.  Aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates.  Assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively.  This prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients' caloric intake and body weight, decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia, or improve patients' feeding ability.  Patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit.  A time series design was utilized.  The control group consisted of 15 patients (mean age = 46.1 years), managed according to the existing ward routine.  Subsequently, nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program.  Following this, the treated group of 16 patients, (mean age = 49.3 years) was assessed by the dysphagia team, using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder.  An individualized treatment program was designed for each patient.  The groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight, deviation from ideal energy intake, and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia.  Statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age, number of days on the study, and Glasgow Coma Scale score; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group.  No incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group.  We speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups.
Acetabular dysplasia in the adolescent and young adult.  Hip dysplasia is a major cause of osteoarthrosis in adults.  Early aggressive osteotomy has the potential of preventing the development of arthritis, but carries with it significant risks.  The problem is further complicated because the surgeon has no means of quantifying the dysplastic deformity or of predicting what a particular combination of osteotomies would do to correct the deformity.  This study describes methods of quantifying hip-joint geometry in three dimensions based on computed tomography and magnetic resonance studies, and of simulating pelvic osteotomy to correct the deformities.  The study analyzes 49 normal hip joints and 20 dysplastic hip joints.  The results show that the normal acetabulum is nearly a full hemisphere, which is anteverted 20 degrees and abducted 53 degrees.  The normal lateral center-edge angle is 37 degrees.  The dysplastic acetabulum is not anterolaterally maldirected, as has been assumed, but is globally dysplastic.  Analysis of the individual dysplastic hip joints showed a wide variability.  Some patients were deficient globally, some anterolaterally, and some posterolaterally.  Methods of analyzing a patient's hip joint, quantifying abnormalities, simulating surgery, and predicting results are demonstrated in a case example.
Determinants of vertebral mineral density in patients receiving long-term glucocorticoid therapy.  This study addresses the impact of clinical and biochemical factors on the bone density of patients receiving glucocorticoid therapy.  Vertebral mineral density was measured by quantitative computed tomography in 35 patients aged 17 to 77 years who had received therapeutic glucocorticoid drugs for 0.1 to 22 years.  The mean (+/- SEM) vertebral mineral density z score in the subjects was -1.7 +/- 0.2.  z score was unrelated to underlying diagnosis, sex, or age but was significantly related to the duration of previous steroid therapy (r = -.38) and to the total cumulative glucocorticoid dose (r = -.50).  The rate of change of bone density in 16 of these subjects followed up over a period of 12 months was -8.9% and was significantly greater in subjects taking more than 12.5 mg of prednisone per day.  Bone loss was not influenced by sex, age, duration of previous steroid treatment, or diagnosis and was not predictable from biochemical measures of calcium metabolism.
Biomechanics of mammalian terrestrial locomotion.  Mammalian skeletons experience peak locomotor stresses (force per area) that are 25 to 50% of their failure strength, indicating a safety factor of between two and four.  The mechanism by which animals achieve a constant safety factor varies depending on the size of the animal.  Over much of their size (0.1 to 300 kilograms), larger mammals maintain uniform skeletal stress primarily by having a more upright posture, which decreases mass-specific muscle force by increasing muscle mechanical advantage.  At greater sizes, increased skeletal allometry and decreased locomotor performance likely maintain stresses constant.  At smaller sizes, skeletal stiffness may be more critical than strength.  The decrease in mass-specific muscle force in mammals weighing 0.1 to 300 kilogram indicates that peak muscle stresses are also constant and correlates with a decrease in mass-specific energy cost of locomotion.  The consistent pattern of locomotor stresses developed in long bones at different speeds and gaits within a species may have important implications for how bones adaptively remodel to changes in stress.
Fructose-induced aberration of metabolism in familial gout identified by 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy.  The hyperuricemia responsible for the development of gouty arthritis results from a wide range of environmental factors and underlying genetically determined aberrations of metabolism.  31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies of children with hereditary fructose intolerance revealed a readily detectable rise in phosphomonoesters with a marked fall in inorganic phosphate in their liver in vivo and a rise in serum urate in response to very low doses of oral fructose.  Parents and some family members heterozygous for this enzyme deficiency showed a similar pattern when given a substantially larger dose of fructose.  Three of the nine heterozygotes thus identified also had clinical gout, suggesting the possibility of this defect being a fairly common cause of gout.  In the present study this same noninvasive technology was used to identify the same spectral pattern in 2 of the 11 families studied with hereditary gout.  In one family, the index patient's three brothers and his mother all showed the fructose-induced abnormality of metabolism, in agreement with the maternal inheritance of the gout in this family group.  The test dose of fructose used produced a significantly larger increment in the concentration of serum urate in the patients showing the changes in 31P magnetic resonance spectra than in the other patients with familial gout or in nonaffected members, thus suggesting a simpler method for initial screening for the defect.
Macrophages stimulate bone resorption when they phagocytose particles.  We investigated in vitro a mechanism by which particulate debris may induce bone resorption and cause implant loosening.  We first studied two standard particles: latex, which is considered to be inert, and zymosan, which is inflammatory.  Macrophages that phagocytosed either particle became activated, and stimulated 15 times as much bone resorption as did control macrophages.  For activation to occur, 100 times more latex than zymosan had to be phagocytosed.  We also found that bone cement and polyethylene particles activated macrophages in a similar manner, and that the necessary amounts of these were intermediate between those of latex and zymosan.  None of the particles were toxic.  It was concluded that implant loosening may result from bone resorption stimulated by mediators released by macrophages that have phagocytosed particles of bone cement or polyethylene.
Failure of acetabular autogenous grafts in total hip arthroplasty. Increasing incidence: a follow-up note.  We reported previously on the application of an autogenous femoral-head graft to the acetabulum during total hip arthroplasty for compensation of marked osseous deficiency in patients who had arthritis secondary to severe congenital dysplasia or dislocation of the hip.  An average of seven years postoperatively, the graft seemed to have been a successful adjunct to the arthroplasty.  Five years later, to assess our long-term results, we reviewed the findings in the same forty-six hips (thirty-seven patients) that we had studied previously.  An average of 11.8 years after the total replacement and use of the autogenous femoral-head graft, nine hips (20 per cent) needed a second operation because the acetabular fixation had failed.  Two had had a resection arthroplasty and seven, a complex revision.  In one additional hip, a resection arthroplasty was done for infection that had developed after operative reattachment of the greater trochanter.  In twelve of the remaining thirty-six hips, there was definite radiographic evidence of acetabular loosening.  Thus, the total incidence of loosening of the acetabular component was 46 per cent (twenty-one hips).  The average time from the index operation to the first definite radiographic evidence that the fixation had failed was 6.4 years (range, 2.9 to 12.7 years).  While we recognize that application of a bulk autogenous graft to the acetabulum is useful when the acetabular bone stock is extremely deficient, we no longer recommend the use of bulk corticocancellous autogenous grafts in other situations.
Localised endosteal bone lysis in relation to the femoral components of cemented total hip arthroplasties.  Four cases are described of localised endosteal bone lysis in the femur occurring in association with cemented femoral components that were not obviously 'loose' radiologically.  In each, the area of lysis was shown at operation to be related directly to a region in which there was a local defect in the cement mantle surrounding the stem.  Via the space between the stem and cement, such defects provide a route through which the contents of the joint cavity may reach the endosteal surface of the femur, subsequently leading to localised bone lysis, and later to frank loosening.
Eosinophilic granuloma of the cervical spine. A case report and review of the literature.  This is a report of a case of eosinophilic granuloma involving the second cervical vertebra in a 33-year-old woman.  There have been 32 case reports in the literature describing eosinophilic granuloma presenting as cervical spine disease.  Due to its intimate relation to the central nervous system, the opportunity for neurological sequelae and neurosurgical intervention is common in cervical eosinophilic granuloma.  In this report a brief history of eosinophilic granuloma is reviewed and case histories from the literature with cervical spine involvement are summarized.  The therapeutic options are described and a recommended protocol for management is outlined.
Prediction of acute renal failure after birth asphyxia.  Twenty-one babies of 34-41 weeks' gestational age with birth asphyxia (5 minute Apgar score less than or equal to 5 or umbilical artery pH less than or equal to 7.2) were studied during the first two days of life to find out whether the urinary excretion of tubular markers of renal function is of value in the early diagnosis of acute renal failure.  Urinary retinol binding protein, myoglobin, and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), expressed as a ratio with urinary creatinine, were measured and excretion profiles repeated at 3-6 days in 15 infants and at 7-14 days in 11 infants.  Plasma creatinine concentration, creatinine clearance, plasma myoglobin concentration, and fractional sodium excretion were measured where possible in asphyxiated infants.  Control data were obtained from 50 healthy infants: 28 gave urine samples alone, 17 urine and blood, and five blood alone.  Normal urinary values were derived from 17, 25, and three infants, respectively, for the three time periods.  The number of control samples was limited for ethical reasons.  Four asphyxiated infants had acute renal failure (group 1), four had tubular dysfunction without glomerular disturbance (group 2) and 13 had normal renal function (group 3).  Group 1 were clearly identified by greatly increased urinary retinol binding protein (greater than 27,000 micrograms/mmol creatinine) and myoglobin (greater than 1500 micrograms/mmol creatinine) excretion measured in the first two days of life.  In control infants the range of excretion of retinol binding protein within the same time period was 3 to 967 micrograms/mmol creatinine and urinary myoglobin was undetectable.  Excretion of NAG failed to discriminate between groups 1 and 2.
Imbalance between the mechanisms of activation and inhibition of metalloproteases in the early lesions of experimental osteoarthritis.  Levels of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases (TIMP) and plasminogen activator (PA)/plasmin were measured and the distribution of PA was studied by immunohistochemical techniques in cartilage and synovium samples from dogs subjected to sectioning of the anterior cruciate ligament of their right knees and sham operation of their left knees (controls).  Twenty-three animals were divided into 3 groups and killed at 2, 4, or 8 weeks after surgery.  The levels of PA and plasmin were found to be significantly elevated in the osteoarthritic (OA) knee cartilage and synovium at all times after surgery, except for levels of PA in the OA cartilage at 2 weeks.  There was a positive correlation between the levels of PA and plasmin in the synovial membrane (r = 0.64, P less than 0.001).  In OA knees, the presence of high levels of total and active collagenase was detected in cartilage and in synovium.  The levels of these 2 forms of collagenase showed a positive correlation both in cartilage (r = 0.65, P less than 0.001) and in synovium (r = 0.77, P less than 0.001).  The levels of TIMP in cartilage from OA and sham operated knees were similar.  Although the TIMP level was increased in the OA synovium, it was found only in trace amounts in cartilage.  Immunohistochemical studies revealed that both forms of PA, urokinase-type PA and tissue-type PA, and TIMP were present in OA tissues.  In the synovium, they were found mainly in monocyte/macrophages, synovial lining cells, and blood vessel cells.  In OA cartilage, PA was present only at the superficial level in chondrocytes and in cartilage matrix, whereas TIMP was present in chondrocyte lacunae throughout the full thickness of the cartilage.  TIMP was also detected in the superficial level of cartilage from sham operated knees.  The results of this study indicate that in OA tissues, there are conditions that favor the synthesis and activation of metalloproteases.  PA and plasmin are likely to play an important role in the physiologic activation of metalloproteases, although they are probably not the only system involved in this process.  The lack of increased TIMP levels in the OA cartilage, in the presence of increased metalloprotease activity, is also a possible contributing factor in the enzymatic degradation of this tissue.
Magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy.  Three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging.  The affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement.  The magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence.
The effect of local deep microwave hyperthermia on experimental zymosan-induced arthritis in rabbits.  The effect of local deep microwave hyperthermia (LDMWH) on normal and Zymosan-induced arthritis has been evaluated in 12 rabbits (24 joints).  LDMWH, four treatments to each joint (twice weekly for a period of 2 wk), was generated by an antenna operating at 915 MHz for 60 min, reaching an intraarticular temperature of 42.5 +/- 0.5 degrees C.  A surface cooling system was used with the microwave apparatus.  Two weeks after the last treatment, all animals were sacrificed.  The application of LDMWH on normal joints induced a limited proliferation of the synovial lining cells with a minimal perivascular infiltration of mononuclear and neutrophil cells.  However, no histologic damage to the skin, muscles, bone, cartilage or bone marrow adjacent to the heated joints could be noted.  Induction of Zymosan arthritis (2 wk before LDMWH) was characterized by pannus formation and granulomatous reaction accompanied by fibrinoid deposits and disseminated necrotic foci in the synovial intima.  The LDMWH treatment on the examined arthritic joints brought about a reduction in the degree of granulomatous reaction concomitant with the appearance of some fibrocytes and fine collagen fibrils.  These findings suggest that LDMWH can be safely applied, even repeatedly, without morphologic evidence of damage to any normal mesenchymal tissue.  Moreover, it reduces the inflammatory process in experimentally induced synovitis.
A sequential three-step lateral release for correcting fixed valgus knee deformities during total knee arthroplasty.  An approach to mild, moderate, and severe fixed valgus deformities of the knee is described.  The sequential approach to soft-tissue releases in the fixed valgus knee allows the surgeon to regain a neutral alignment in valgus deformities of up to 90 degrees.  An additional benefit of the approach is spontaneous correction of fixed external tibial rotation deformities.  Using this approach, early and late stability allows the use of unconstrained knee implants, including those with mobile-bearing elements.
Treatment of craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia: how early and how extensive?  Twenty-eight craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia patients were treated as early as the symptoms occurred.  The principles of surgical treatment were based on the zones of involvement: total excision of dysplastic bone of fronto-orbital, zygoma, and upper maxillary origin (zone 1) and bone reconstruction primarily; conservative excision on hair-bearing skull (zone 2), central cranial base (zone 3), and tooth-bearing bones (zone 4); and optic canal decompression on patients with orbital dysplasia and decreasing visual acuity.  Patients were followed for 1 to 11 years (average 5.3 years).  No recurrence or invasion of the fibrous dysplasia into the grafted bone was seen.  One patient had orthognathic maxillary osteotomy on the reconstructed maxilla 6 years after initial reconstruction.  Five of 19 patients with alveolar dysplasia had a recurrence and were reshaped.  One patient had mandibular sagittal osteotomies to set back the prognathic, fibrous dysplasic mandible after three attempts at conservative shaving.  Another patient with mandibular fibrous dysplasia had recurrence with pain and a hemimandibulectomy with successful immediate free vascularized iliac bone graft reconstruction.
Late recurrence of varus deformity after proximal tibial osteotomy.  One hundred thirteen knees with medial gonarthrosis in 95 patients were treated by valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomy and followed clinically and roentgenographically for a minimum of five years (mean, 6.3 years).  Sixty-four knees (57%) were pain free or had only mild discomfort when walking.  The standing femorotibial angle decreased from a postoperative average of 9.3 degrees valgus to 7.8 degrees valgus at the final follow-up examination.  The tendency for varus recurrence greater than 5 degrees and for medial- or lateral-compartment arthritic progression was evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier survival method.  Varus recurred in 18%, lateral-compartment arthritic progression in 60%, and medial-compartment arthritic progression in 83% by nine years after surgery.  The probability of arthritic progression is much higher than the probability of significant varus recurrence in long-term roentgenographic follow-up studies of patients with valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomies.
Cemented total knee arthroplasty for gonarthrosis in patients 55 years old or younger.  The results of 68 cemented total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) in 50 patients with gonarthrosis who were 55 years old or younger at the time of surgery were reviewed.  These patients were operated on between 1979 and 1987 and were followed for an average of 6.2 years.  The average age of the patients was 50 years.  Patients were evaluated by the Hospital for Special Surgery knee score.  The average preoperative score was 53, and the average follow-up score was 90.  Overall, 55 TKAs were rated as excellent and 13 as good.  Using the knee rating score advocated by the Knee Society, the average postoperative score was 92 for pain and 84 for function.  There were four successful reoperations for patellar component loosening, all in metal-backed patellae.  The femoral and tibial components in these patients were intact, and at the follow-up period, two knees were rated as excellent and two as good.  Detailed roentgenographic evaluation demonstrated that 20% of tibial components had radiolucencies in at least one zone on the anteroposterior roentgenogram and in 11% on the lateral roentgenogram.  Femoral radiolucencies occurred in only 2% of knees.  Patellar radiolucencies in one or more zones occurred in 20% of knees that had not had patellar revision.  No complete or progressive radiolucencies at the bone-cement interface were noted for any component, and no components were considered to be roentgenographically loose.  Cemented TKAs can achieve excellent long-term results in patients younger than 55 years old with gonarthrosis of the knee.  These results compare with those obtained in published reports on older age groups.
The modified Schollner costoplasty.  The modified Schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis.  We present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis.  We found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications.  Objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case.  All but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit.
Combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for spinal canal surgery in children and adolescents.  Spinal deformities, especially kyphosis and instability, after laminectomy for tumors and other diseases, are major clinical problems.  Since 1981, combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for the prevention of postlaminectomy spinal deformities was performed on eight male and two female patients aged two to 26 years (average, 13.9 years).  The follow-up period was from six months to seven years and three months (average, three years and five months).  Two patients died six and ten months postoperatively because of brain metastases (astrocytoma) and lung metastases (neuroblastoma), respectively.  Good alignment with no instability of the cervical or thoracic spine was obtained for all patients, including the two who died.  Laminoplasty combined with posterolateral fusion was found to be very effective in preventing the development of spinal deformities after spinal canal surgery for spinal cord tumors or other diseases in children and adolescents.
The molecular basis of hereditary 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 resistant rickets in seven related families.  Hereditary 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] resistant rickets (HVDRR) is an autosomal recessive disease caused by target organ resistance to the action of 1,25(OH)2D3, the active form of the hormone.  The defect in target cells is heterogenous and commonly appears to be a mutation in the gene encoding the vitamin D receptor (VDR).  We have studied cultured skin fibroblasts and Epstein-Barr virus transformed lymphoblasts of seven family branches of an extended kindred having eight children affected with HVDRR.  We have previously shown that cells from three affected children in this group contain an "ochre" nonsense mutation coding for a premature stop codon in exon 7 within the steroid-binding domain of the VDR gene.  In the current studies, we found that cells from affected children failed to bind [3H]1,25(OH)2D3 and had undetectable levels of VDR as determined by immunoblots using an anti-VDR monoclonal antibody.  Measurement of VDR mRNA by hybridization to a human VDR cDNA probe showed undetectable or decreased abundance of steady-state VDR mRNA.  Parents, expected to be obligate heterozygotes, showed approximately half the normal levels of [3H]1,25(OH)2D3 binding, VDR protein, and mRNA.  The mutation at nucleotide 970 (counting from the mRNA CAP site) results in the conversion of GTAC to GTAA, which eliminates an Rsa I restriction enzyme site and facilitates identification of the mutation.  We found that polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of exons 7 and 8 from family members and subsequent Rsa I digestion allows detection of the specific genotype of the individuals.  When Rsa I digests of PCR-amplified DNA are subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, children with HVDRR exhibit a homozygous banding pattern with loss of an Rsa I site.  Parents exhibit a heterozygotic DNA pattern with detection of both normal and mutant alleles.  In summary, our data show that the genetic abnormality is a point mutation within the steroid-binding domain of the VDR in all seven related families with HVDRR.  Analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphism at the 970 locus of PCR-amplified DNA fragments can be used to diagnose this mutation in both affected children and parents carrying the disease.
A subluxing arthropathy associated with the anti-Jo-1 antibody in polymyositis/dermatomyositis.  Of 180 patients with polymyositis/dermatomyositis (PM/DM) seen at the University of Pittsburgh and affiliated hospitals since 1975, 21 of 100 tested positive for the anti-Jo-1 antibody.  Sixteen of the 21 patients were women and 18 were white.  Fifteen had adult PM, 4 had myositis in overlap with scleroderma, and 2 had adult DM.  Evidence of interstitial lung disease was found in 12 of 18 anti-Jo-1 positive patients (67%), but in only 15 of 79 anti-Jo-1 negative patients (19%) (P less than 0.0002).  The 21 anti-Jo-1 positive patients were divided into 3 separate groups based on the observed articular findings.  Four patients had a deforming, predominantly nonerosive arthropathy with subluxations of the distal interphalangeal joints, especially the thumbs.  Eight patients had a nondeforming arthropathy primarily affecting the small joints of the hands, wrists, shoulders, and knees.  Those with deformities had a longer duration of arthritis compared with those with nondeforming arthropathy (mean 14.5 years versus 3.3 years).  Nine anti-Jo-1 positive patients had no joint arthropathy.  Three of 4 patients with deformities have required articular reconstructive surgery for subluxation, with 2 having associated subcutaneous calcinosis.
Physician documentation of diabetes care: use of a diabetes flow sheet and patient education clinic.  We assessed two interventions designed to improve the care of patients with diabetes mellitus by documenting the complications of their disease.  These were a flow sheet, included with outpatient medical records, and a weekly patient education clinic, in which a nurse educator provided individualized instruction to patients with diabetes.  Physician compliance with recommendations of the National Diabetes Advisory Board for diabetes care was measured before (n = 45) and after (n = 158) these interventions.  The numbers of referrals to ophthalmologists increased from 22% to 46%, urinalyses increased from 58% to 77%, and lower extremity examinations increased from 36% to 61%.  Nutrition education documentation increased from 51% to 69%, and diabetes education documentation increased from 31% to 61%.  These results suggest that a significant improvement in physicians' documentation of care of patients with diabetes can be achieved by using a flow sheet and a diabetes patient education clinic.
Electrophysiological spectrum of inclusion body myositis.  We present electrodiagnostic data on 30 patients with inclusion body myositis (IBM) in order to better delineate its electrophysiological features.  Comprehensive electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies (NCS) were performed in all cases.  Twelve patients had single fiber electromyography (SFEMG).  EMG showed abundant short-small motor unit potentials (MUP) with fibrillations and positive sharp waves in 56.6% of patients, and a mixed pattern of large and small MUP in 36.7%.  In 6.7%, only "neurogenic" features were seen.  NCS were slow in 33.3%.  SFEMG revealed a mildly abnormal jitter and a slightly increased fiber density.  IBM demonstrates a heterogeneous EMG profile.  A pattern of large and small MUP is highly suggestive of IBM but is seen in only about one third of cases.
Yersinia enterocolitica tenosynovitis. The first case.  We describe a case of tenosynovitis of tibialis posterior due to Yersinia enterocolitica occurring after injury by a plant thorn in a 55-year-old man.  The illness was chronic with 2 recurrences in spite of antibiotic treatment.  Full recovery was obtained only after surgical intervention.  Our patient's chronic course was fostered by the persistence of thorn fragments in the infected area and the exceptionally pathogenic character of the isolated colony of Yersinia.
Long scoliosis fusion to the sacrum in adults with nonparalytic scoliosis. An improved method.  The first 17 adults with nonparalytic scoliosis having long fusion to the sacrum treated with the Luque-Galveston technique were reviewed.  There were 3 men and 14 women.  Their average age at the time of surgery was 47 years and the mean follow-up period was 42 months.  There were no neurologic complications and no patient developed significant loss of lumbar lordosis.  Fusion occurred in 88% of patients.  Two patients developed pseudarthrosis, neither of whom had anterior fusion at the level of pseudarthrosis.  The best results occurred in patients who had two-stage procedures, with initial anterior lumbar fusion to the sacrum without instrumentation followed by posterior segmental instrumentation with the Galveston technique of fixation to the pelvis.
Trochanteric fractures. Influence of reduction and implant position on impaction and complications.  A review of roentgenograms and charts was made of 532 trochanteric fractures treated by the sliding-screw technique.  According to Evans' modified classification, 65% of the fractures were unstable.  There was no breakage or bending of implants.  Twenty (3.8%) reoperations were performed because of technical complications or nonunion.  The Singh index revealed more unstable fractures and technical complications in hips with Grades 1-3 than in hips with Grades 4-6.  Reoperation was more frequent if the screw tip was within 8 mm from the subchondral line in the superolateral quadrant or in the anteroproximal quadrant than if the screw ended farther from the subchondral line.  Fifty-five (10.8%) of the lag screws migrated 2 mm or more.  Postoperatively, the neck-shaft angle decreased more in unstable fractures than in stable fractures.  The decrease in neck-shaft angle was less when the proximal fragment impinged medially on the shaft fragment.  Unstable fractures with this type of reduction also impacted less than hips with anatomic reduction or medial reduction of the shaft fragment.  Weight bearing did not significantly influence the degree of impaction.
Flurbiprofen versus diclofenac for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee.  Seventy-four patients were enrolled in this double-blind, randomized single-center study to evaluate the therapeutic effectiveness of 50 mg tid regimens of flurbiprofen or diclofenac sodium in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee.  By chance, the flurbiprofen patients had a significantly more advanced disease status at baseline than their diclofenac-treated counterparts.  However, at subsequent follow-up evaluations, both treatment groups experienced a significant reduction in disease severity regardless of the baseline differences.  No serious safety problems were associated with either investigational therapy.  The frequency of reported medical events were distributed equally between the flurbiprofen and diclofenac groups.  Although the imbalance in disease severity between treatment groups made a rigorous statistical interpretation of the results very difficult, the data from this clinical trial tend to support the equiefficacy of 50 mg tid regimens of flurbiprofen versus diclofenac for treating osteoarthritis of the knee.
Hearing loss due to cranio-metaphysial dysplasia.  Craniometaphysial dysplasia is a rare cause of conductive hearing loss.  It is a genetic disorder of bone due to decreased osteoclastic activity in the endosteal and periosteal regions of craniofacial and long bones.  The characteristic temporal bone abnormalities are attic fixation, abnormally shaped ossicles and obliterated foramina ovale.  Computerised tomography is helpful in predicting operative findings; surgery should be reserved for those with a severe hearing loss.
An unusual cause of thoracic mass.  A previously well 10 year old boy presented with scoliosis, a mass in the chest wall, and a pleural effusion.  Chest radiography showed the triad of chronic consolidation, pleural effusion, and rib periostitis.  Investigations confirmed thoracic actinomycosis.  Tissue spread was evaluated by computed tomography.  It was successfully treated with benzylpenicillin, which was later replaced by clindamycin.
Ocular complications of rheumatic diseases of childhood.  The association between inflammatory ocular and articular disease is a strong one, although the pathogenesis of this relationship is obscure.  For the physician or surgeon caring for children with chronic arthritis, awareness of the risk of chronic asymptomatic anterior uveitis is essential if early diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of visual impairment are to be accomplished.  This is particularly true for children with pauciarticular-onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis.  Acute symptomatic anterior uveitis is characteristic of disorders such as ankylosing spondylitis.  Whereas this disease is initially more unpleasant for the child, it has a good long-term prognosis.
Effects of rib elongation on the spine. I. Distortion of the vertebral alignment in the rabbit.  Elongation of one rib on the right side by 1 cm was achieved in two groups of adult rabbits of different age, by osteotomy and application of a metallic expander.  The procedure resulted in immediate deviation of the spine in the frontal and sagittal planes, with moderate scoliosis, convex to the left, and a significant decrease in the normal cervicothoracic lordosis and thoracolumbar kyphosis.  Moreover, computed tomography (CT) scanning demonstrated rotation of vertebra about the longitudinal axis relative to the anterior midline of the body, and deviation of the spinous process toward the convex, left side, of the scoliotic deformity.  Rib hump developed on the right side--that of the elongated rib.  These changes, which occurred simultaneously in the three planes, were less pronounced in the group of older animals.  Two weeks after the operation, the distorted configuration of the spine remained unchanged.  The observed changes in the alignment of the vertebrae--changes that, except for their direction on the horizontal plane, resembled those associated with idiopathic scoliosis in man--support the earlier proposed link between the early stage of development of this condition and asymmetry of rib growth.
Young adults with special health care needs: prevalence, severity, and access to health services.  Health care needs of disabled young adults and access to care are analyzed using the 1984 National Health Interview Survey, a nationally representative sample of 10,394 randomly selected noninstitutionalized young adults aged 19 to 24.  In 1984, 1.4 million young adults (almost 6%) suffered from disabilities.  The leading cause of disability was diseases of the musculoskeletal system and connective tissue.  Young adults living in poverty, in households where the family reference person had less than a high school education, and who were male were at elevated risk of disability.  Disabled young adults made almost three times as many physician contacts and were hospitalized for close to six times as many days as nondisabled young adults.  One of every 5 disabled young adults was uninsured in 1984.  Forty-one percent of disabled Hispanic 19- to 24-year-olds and 51% of disabled young adults of other races were uninsured compared with 19% of whites and blacks.  Research and financing policy implications are discussed.
Focal fibrocartilaginous dysplasia associated with tibia vara.  Focal fibrocartilaginous dysplasia of the tibia at the insertion of the pes anserinus (the expanded tendinous insertion of the gracilis, sartorius, and semitendinous muscles) is a rare unilateral lesion with a characteristic deformity of the proximal tibial metadiaphysis.  It is associated with unilateral tibia vara in toddlers.  Three cases of this entity are described, and the radiologic features are presented.  Recognition of this disease is important because the response to conservative therapy is excellent.
The natural history of lumbar intervertebral disc extrusions treated nonoperatively.  The purpose of this study was to evaluate the natural history of morphologic changes within the lumbar spine in patients who sustained lumbar disc extrusions.  All patients in this study were treated nonoperatively for radicular pain and neurologic loss.  The following questions were addressed: 1) Does perithecal or perineural fibrosis result when extrusions are not removed surgically, and 2) Do disc extrusions spontaneously resolve, and, if so, how rapidly? The study population consisted of 11 patients with extrusions and radiculopathy.  All patients were successfully treated nonoperatively.  All had a primary complaint of leg pain and all had positive straight leg raising reproducing their leg pain at less than or equal to 60 degrees.  Additionally, 87% had muscle weakness on a neurologic basis in a root level distribution corresponding to the site of disc pathology.  Computed tomographic (CT) examinations were obtained on all patients at the inception of treatment.  These studies were compared with follow-up MRI studies.  The initial CT scans were evaluated for the following criteria: disc size and position, thecal sac effacement, nerve root enlargement or displacement, and evidence of central or intervertebral canal stenosis.  In addition to the pathomorphology evaluated on the CT scans, follow-up MRI studies also evaluated disc hydration at the herniated and contiguous levels, and the presence of perithecal or perineural fibrosis.  The following grading system was used to evaluate change in fragment size on the follow-up studies: Grade 1-0 to 50% decrease in size; Grade 2-50 to 75% decrease in size; Grade 3-75 to 100% decrease in size.
Osteotomy for osteoarthritis of the hip. A survivorship analysis.  We have reviewed 368 osteotomies carried out for osteoarthritis of the hip at the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre.  Survivorship analysis showed that 10 years after osteotomy 47% had required no further surgery, and even after 20 years 23% had still not had a hip replacement.  Hips with moderate arthritic change showed significantly better results than those with more severe degeneration.  Osteotomies with varus angulation as well as medial displacement showed longer survival.
Klinefelter's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery   Klinefelter's syndrome is a rare entity.  Even rarer is an anomalous origin of the Left Main Coronary Artery.  For both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare.  Reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with Klinefelter's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach.
Nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute, multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  We report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated Mycobacterium avium infection, in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks.  Multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques.  The epidemiology, possible pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnostic imaging, and therapy are reviewed.  Early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with "cryptic" myalgia is recommended.
Postpartum osteomyelitis caused by group B streptococcus.  Postpartum infections caused by group B streptococci are generally limited in scope.  We report a case of vaginal colonization with group B streptococcus that progressed in the postpartum period to osteomyelitis that necessitated total hip replacement.  The patient had no risk factors predisposing to streptococcal osteomyelitis.  An altered immune status in pregnancy and intrapartum bacteremia may be involved in the pathogenesis of this infection.
Association of vertebral end plate fracture with pediatric lumbar intervertebral disk herniation: value of CT and MR imaging.  A retrospective review of the radiologic findings in 31 patients less than 21 years old who underwent laminotomy for lumbar disk herniation revealed six cases of associated avulsion fracture of the vertebral end plate, a prevalence of 19%.  All fractures were found in the 14-17-year-old subgroup (six of 19), a prevalence of 32%.  In four patients, plain radiographs did not reveal the fracture.  Computed tomographic (CT) findings were diagnostic in all six cases.  Magnetic resonance (MR) images, obtained in three patients, demonstrated the avulsed cortical fragment and what are assumed to be the attached Sharpey fibers.  On sagittal MR images, these structures had a configuration with the appearance of a "Y" or "7".  Four of these six patients underwent bilateral laminotomies.  The need for more extensive surgical resection may not be apparent at plain radiography or myelography but can be predicted with CT and MR imaging.
Cytomegalovirus-induced osteomyelitis in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  A 43-year-old man with AIDS had a periodontal abscess, no fever, and normal findings on funduscopic examination.  Three months later, the abscess area was debrided, and histologic examination of the tissue revealed osteomyelitis of the mandible.  Within the area of osteomyelitis were numerous cells with inclusions typical of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected cells.  Funduscopic examination at that time revealed extensive CMV retinitis.  Osteomyelitis should be added to the list of infections caused by CMV in patients with AIDS.
Orbital compartment syndrome. Direct measurement of orbital tissue pressure: 1. Technique.  Many disorders of the orbit produce an increase in intraorbital pressure, which may result in the development of an orbital compartment syndrome and visual loss.  Traditionally, orbital tension is assessed clinically by indirect means based on retrodisplacement of the globe.  The authors describe their experience with the "slit-catheter" technique for direct tissue pressure measurement as applied to the orbit.  The preliminary results indicate that normal orbital pressure ranges from 3.0 to 6.0 mm Hg.  In patients with Graves' orbitopathy the values ranged from 7.0 to 15.0 mm Hg.  The results suggest that the technique may have many exciting possibilities as a clinical research tool in orbital disease, and its use will result in better understanding of orbital compartment syndromes.
Open fractures of the tibia in children.  Forty-one children who had forty-two open fractures of the tibial metaphysis or diaphysis were studied retrospectively.  Twelve fractures were Type I; eighteen, Type II; six, Type IIIA; four, Type IIIB; and two, Type IIIC, according to the classification of Gustilo et al.  All fractures were irrigated and debrided, and antibiotics were given for a minimum of forty-eight hours after the injury.  Twenty fractures were initially treated with external fixation and twenty-two, with immobilization in a plaster cast.  Three patients had an early infection of the wound, one of which was associated with osteomyelitis; all were successfully treated.  The average time to healing of the fracture was five months (range, two to twenty-one months).  The time to union was related to the severity of the soft-tissue injury, the pattern of the fracture, the amount of segmental bone loss, the occurrence of infection, and the use of external fixation.  There were six delayed unions.  Four patients had an angular malunion of more than 10 degrees, which spontaneously corrected in three.  One patient who had a proximal metaphyseal-diaphyseal segmental fracture had a progressive valgus deformity.  Four patients who had a severe fracture that was treated with external fixation had more than one centimeter of tibial over-growth.  There were no amputations.  The incidences of compartment syndrome, vascular injury, infection, and delayed union were similar to those reported for open tibial fractures in adults.
Unusual cause of 'piriformis muscle syndrome'.  The piriformis muscle syndrome is a controversial "clinical" syndrome primarily characterized by signs and symptoms of sciatic nerve compression at the region of the piriformis muscle as it passes through the greater sciatic notch.  The syndrome is often referred to; however, cases are rarely reported, and it is generally an uncommon diagnosis.  Of those cases reported, the incidence is six times more frequent in females than in males, and is typically temporally related to minor pelvic or buttock trauma.  We describe a case of a 40-year-old woman presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of piriformis muscle syndrome following a gynecologic procedure performed in the dorsal lithotomy position.  Electromyographic findings were consistent with this clinical entity.  Operative exploration, however, revealed the source of neural compression to be a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior gluteal artery adjacent to the piriformis muscle.  The diagnostic features of this clinical syndrome are discussed.
Septic Streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis.  We describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to Streptococcus milleri.  In both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology.  Surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case.  Longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery.  Despite confused nomenclature Streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity.
Cellular immune response toward human articular chondrocytes. T cell reactivities against chondrocyte and fibroblast membranes in destructive joint diseases.  Articular cartilage is one of the major targets in destructive joint diseases in humans.  We studied cellular immune reactions against cartilage cell-surface membranes, because it has recently been suggested that these represent possible antigenic structures, based upon the observation of autoantibodies with this specificity in certain joint diseases.  A striking T cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes was found both in blood and synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis.  This reactivity was strongly dependent on the presence of monocytes and had all the characteristics of an antigen-driven process.  Clonal analysis demonstrated high precursor frequencies in peripheral blood T cells that were reactive against chondrocyte membranes.  This response to chondrocyte membranes greatly exceeded the T cell stimulation induced by membranes from other sources such as fibroblasts or epithelial cells.  In contrast to patients with rheumatoid arthritis, individuals with osteoarthritis showed a strong peripheral blood and synovial fluid T cell response not only to chondrocyte membranes, but also to fibroblast membrane material.  However, there was no reactivity to epithelial cell membranes.  Normal donors generally did not show significant responses to any membrane preparation.  These data indicate that there is a strong T cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes in destructive joint disorders, and this may significantly contribute to the pathogenetic processes that occur in these diseases.
Fetal imaging in the skeletal dysplasias.  Second-trimester diagnosis of fetal skeletal dysplasia is becoming increasingly common.  By careful examination of the fetus for skeletal mineralization, shape and size of long bones and cranium, and abnormalities of other organ systems, a definitive diagnosis can often be achieved by ultrasound.  Fetal radiography is very helpful in giving more information about bone shape and mineralization as well as in confirming the diagnosis.  Subsequent obstetric management should be dictated by the natural history of the disease, the parents' wishes, and the gestational age at diagnosis.  Because many of these disorders have a high recurrence risk, genetic counseling and follow-up are an important part of the management of these patients.
Lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus presenting as shoulder capsulitis.  We describe three patients who presented with pain and restriction of movement at the shoulder suggestive of capsulitis, but proved to have lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus.  It is important to be aware of the possibility of this cause of a 'frozen shoulder', since radiographs of the shoulder are usually cropped at the mid-humerus and lesions at this level may easily be missed.  A radiograph of the entire humerus, or an isotope bone scan, may be more useful than repeated shoulder radiographs in patients whose shoulder symptoms do not respond to standard treatment.
Effect of a pulsing electromagnetic field on metabolically derived osteoporosis in rats: a pilot study.  The literature suggests that a pulsating electromagnetic field (PEMF) is effective against bone loss in disuse osteoporosis.  This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of PEMF on metabolically derived osteoporosis in rats.  Sixteen 5 month old female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups (G-1,2,3).  G-1 was given a normal diet and no exposure to PEMF; G-2,3 were oophrectomized and fed a low calcium diet for 8 months; and G-3 was also exposed for 24 hr/day to PEMF generated by applying a 15 Hz, 5.6 A peak to peak square wave to Helmholtz coils (64 cm I.D., 200 turns/coil).  The rats were sacrificed at 4, 6, and 8 months.  Skeletal changes were analyzed by measurements of acid extracted bone calcium and bone mineral content (BMC) using single photon absorptiometry (SPA).  Although all animals started at approximately the same weight (mean of 290.0 g), G-2 showed a more progressive increase.  While the mean weight after 8 months in G-1 was 350.0 g, and 352.5 g for G-3, that in G-2 was 400.0 g.  The calcium content of the femur in G-2 and G-3 at 8 months was lower than that of G-1, but there were no significant differences among the three groups.
Herniated intervertebral discs associated with unstable spinal injuries.  To examine the occurrence of traumatic herniated intervertebral discs associated with unstable spinal injuries, the authors reviewed the records of all patients with spinal cord level unstable spine injuries managed at their institution over a 26-month period.  Ninety-three patients were identified.  All patients had roentgenographic and computed tomographic (CT) evaluation.  Magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 48 patients, and revealed the presence of a herniated intervertebral disc in 16, with the highest incidence being in the cervical spine.  In the patients who had only plain film and CT scans, no disc pathology was identified.  Magnetic resonance imaging provides a noninvasive means of examining intervertebral disc damage in unstable spinal injuries that might otherwise be unidentified and result in spinal cord injury at the time of surgery.
Relationship of glucocorticoid dosage to serum bone Gla-protein concentration in patients with rheumatologic disorders.  Serum bone Gla-protein (BGP) measurements in 50 rheumatic disease patients receiving long-term prednisone therapy revealed an inverse relationship (r = -0.71, P less than 0.001) between serum BGP levels and prednisone dosage.  Multiple regression analysis demonstrated significant relationships (R2 = 0.72, P less than 0.001) between serum BGP1/2 and prednisone dosage, dosage2, serum creatinine, age, and an age-creatinine interaction.  This model predicts the suppression of serum BGP with low dosages of steroids and 50% suppression with dosages of 20-25 mg/day.
Congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system: a new clinical classification.  The numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician's understanding of the condition.  The clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment.  Future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities.
Repetitive strain injuries. How to deal with 'the epidemic of the 1990s'.  Occupational trends, especially the mushrooming of computer use in the United States, have brought with them a virtual epidemic of repetitive strain injury of the upper limb.  What can you as a primary care physician do to stem the tide? In this article, the authors fill you in on treatment of the most common injuries as well as remark on the ramifications for business and industry.
Monosodium urate crystals stimulate phospholipase A2 enzyme activities and the synthesis of a phospholipase A2-activating protein.  Eicosanoids are important mediators of the inflammatory response to monosodium urate crystals (MSUC) that results in gout.  Phospholipase enzymes cleave fatty acids from membrane phospholipids, and this is thought to be the rate-limiting step in eicosanoid production.  To understand better the mechanism of eicosanoid production in this disease, we stimulated human peripheral blood neutrophils and monocytes with MSUC and measured phospholipase enzyme activities.  MSUC stimulated both intracellular and secretory phospholipase A2 enzyme activities in a time and concentration-dependent manner.  Specificity was observed, as phospholipase C activities were not affected.  Pretreatment with colchicine, but not aspirin, indomethacin, allopurinol, or islet activating protein, abrogated the enhanced phospholipase A2 activities.  We have recently isolated and characterized a phospholipase A2 activating protein termed PLAP from synovial fluid from patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and from murine and bovine cell lines.  PLAP was detected in gouty synovial fluid by immunodot blotting and ELISA assays and expressed the same characteristics as PLAP identified from other sources.  To examine the role of PLAP in MSUC-induced phospholipase A2 stimulation, we treated cells with MSUC and observed an increase in immunoreactive PLAP.  This response also could be blunted by colchicine, but not other drugs.  Both phospholipase A2 and PLAP induced production by human monocytes of PGE2 and leukotriene B4 by neutrophils.  These findings suggest that phospholipase A2 activation in response to MSUC requires an intact microtubule structure, and that phospholipase A2 and PLAP may be important modulators of at least a portion of the gouty inflammatory response.
Arthritis: roles of radiography and other imaging techniques in evaluation.  Imaging studies are performed on patients with arthritis for a variety of reasons: to determine whether an arthritic condition is present; to establish the specific diagnosis; to determine the extent of disease; to assess the activity of disease; to detect complications of disease; to evaluate progression of disease; to judge the efficacy of drug treatment; to help in selection of surgical candidates; to aid in the choice of surgical procedures; to size, design, or fabricate prostheses; and to identify complications of surgery.  Conventional radiography is still the mainstay of all examinations in arthritic patients.  Arthrography is best applied to evaluate complications of disease and of surgery, although it may be useful in disease detection and in determining the specific diagnosis.  Nuclear medicine studies are best used to identify complications of surgery and may also be useful to assess disease activity or extent.  Ultrasound is useful to detect dissecting synovial cysts and deep venous thrombosis.  The most valuable role of computed tomography is in the design and fabrication of prostheses and in evaluating complex anatomy of involved joints.  Magnetic resonance imaging may be useful in early detection of articular cartilage damage and may assist in determination of the specific diagnosis; enhancement with contrast material may aid in assessment of disease activity.
Scleroderma and L-tryptophan: a possible explanation of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Scleroderma developed in six women who were taking L-tryptophan.  Fasciitis and morphea were most common, but one patient had pleural effusion, hypertension, and signs of cardiac and kidney failure.  In five patients the biopsy findings were characteristic of scleroderma; the sixth patient had Crohn's disease and developed fasciitis; her biopsy specimen showed inflammatory arteritis.  All patients' conditions improved after cessation of their L-tryptophan intake, initiation of corticosteroid therapy, or both.  These findings confirm previous data that show altered tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism in some patients with scleroderma and fasciitis, particularly with tryptophan loading.
The distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb.  To determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured.  Four groups of patients were studied: 22 control subjects, 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis, 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis.  In the testing posture (seated), patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side.  Gravitational torques were included in the measurements.  However, proximal muscles (acting at hip and knee) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles (acting at ankle and hallux).  At any particular joint, physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects.  As in the upper limb (Colebatch and Gandevia, 1989), the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects, although no muscle groups were especially affected.
Results of treatment of tibial and femoral osteomyelitis in adults.  From January 1, 1971, to December 31, 1985, 425 patients with chronic osteomyelitis of the femur or tibia were seen at the authors' institution.  The success rate in this recent experience was 84.4% compared with 50.9% in the authors' results published in 1970.  A classification of chronic osteomyelitis is as follows: (1) hematogenous osteomyelitis; (2) osteomyelitis in united fractures (fracture with union); (3) osteomyelitis in nonunion (fracture with nonunion); and (4) postoperative or posttraumatic osteomyelitis in which bone was not fractured.  For management of the scarring of surrounding soft tissue, there has been a change to excision of the scarred tissue and reliance on muscle flap, free-tissue transfer, or closure of soft tissues without irrigation with antibiotic solution.  In recent years, free microvascular osseous grafts have permitted more aggressive resection of the involved osseous tissue.  The predominance of gram-negative organisms and penicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and the occurrence of methicillin-resistant S.  aureus continue.
A case of dyschondroplasia associated with brain stem glioma: diagnosis by stereotactic biopsy.  We present a 24-year-old patient with multiple chondromas of both hands, the pelvis, the left leg, and an associated brain stem glioma.  There was no evidence of hemangioma or dyschromia, and the condition was diagnosed as Ollier's disease, a special type of dyschondroplasia like Maffucci's syndrome and Kast's disease.  An increased overall risk for development of malignant skeletal and nonskeletal tumors is associated with Maffucci's syndrome.  The risk of malignant degeneration is lower in Ollier's disease.  A glioma in the pons and the right lobe of the cerebellum was found in this patient.  The literature describes an association with gliomas in only 12 cases of dyschondroplasia and an infratentorial localization in just one case.  Signs of malignancy were histologically confirmed in 7 cases without significant preponderance of any one type.  Our patient had a low-grade brain stem astrocytoma with fibrillar and gemistocytic components.  A stereotactic serial biopsy made it possible to rule out malignant degeneration.  Stereotactic brain tumor biopsy as a routine neurosurgical procedure is particularly valuable for deep space-occupying processes and forms the basis for therapy.  In the present case, irradiation was not recommended.
Tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap in neck burn contracture.  Neck contracture after burn injury can result in severe functional as well as aesthetic deformities.  Contracture can recur even after wide and complete release and full-thickness skin grafting.  Recurrence is partly due to the inherent difficulties in both early postoperative immobilization and the required long-term splinting.  When adjacent tissues are also burned, adequate local tissue for reconstruction may not be available; therefore, free-tissue transfer may be necessary.  The large surface area that is required after adequate release may be provided by tissue expansion before free-tissue transfer.  In the case presented the use of tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap for the reconstruction of a recurrent neck contracture is described.
Comparison of patellar resurfacing versus nonresurfacing in bilateral total knee arthroplasty.  Twenty-five patients who received bilateral total knee prostheses were studied to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of patellar resurfacing.  Only patients with advanced patellofemoral disease were included in the study.  In all patients, patellar resurfacing had been done in the right knee but not in the left knee.  The DePuy porous-coated implant was used in all cases.  Subjective criteria were compared with objective criteria, which included range of motion, knee flexion and extension, and roentgenographic evaluation.  The findings in this study suggest that patellar resurfacing can offer the patient a superior knee with regard to pain relief and strength.
Risk factors for the development of osteoarthrosis of the knee.  The roles of physical activity (both work and leisure time), obesity, and history of significant knee injury on the development of severe osteoarthrosis (OA) of the knee were evaluated.  A case-control design compared 46 cases with a history of severe OA of the knee with 46 community controls matched for age and gender.  Data were gathered with a self-administered questionnaire.  The OA cases were 3.5 times more likely than controls to have been obese at 20 years of age, two to three times more likely than controls to have performed heavy work, and almost five times more likely than controls to have had a significant knee injury.  In contrast, leisure-time physical activity was not significantly different in cases compared with controls.  Obesity, significant knee injury, and long-term heavy physical activity are important risk factors for the development of OA of the knee.
Intradural herniation of a thoracic disc presenting as flaccid paraplegia: case report.  A case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described.  Intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event.  A review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients.  No other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia.
Thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children.  Thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions, including infectious diseases.  We studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections, particularly pneumonia with empyema in children.  A systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted.  Twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied.  Thrombocytosis (platelet counts greater than 500 x 10(3)/microliters) was present in 92.5%.  Platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 +/- 3.7 days (range, 7 to 25) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness.  Compared with a healthy control group, significant thrombocytosis, but of lower incidence, was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion, bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis.  Platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed.  Bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia.  We found no correlation between thrombocytosis, neutrophilia, fever, the clinical course, complications, prognosis or treatment.  Neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed.
Chylothorax after posterior spinal instrumentation and fusion.  Chylothorax occurred in a 16-year-old girl after posterior spinal fusion and instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis.  Nonoperative management, including chest tube drainage for 26 days and total parenteral nutrition, successfully treated this unusual complication after a posterior spinal fusion.
Pathogenesis of antigen-induced arthritis in mice deficient in neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G.  The contribution of neutrophil-derived elastase and cathepsin G to joint pathology has been examined in immune arthritis in the mouse.  Neutrophils from beige mice are genetically deficient in lysosomal elastase and cathepsin G, but have normal levels of the acid hydrolases, beta-glucuronidase, and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase.  The development of antigen-induced arthritis in normal mice has been compared with that in beige mice.  The pattern of synovitis (both leukocyte accumulation and plasma leakage) were indistinguishable in normal and beige mice.  Cartilage proteoglycan depletion was quantified by measuring the decrease in safranin O staining intensity, and this, too, was unaltered in mice lacking elastase and cathepsin G.  These results suggest that neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G do not contribute to these aspects of joint pathology in antigen-induced arthritis in the mouse.
Aerobic work capacity in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome   OBJECTIVE--To determine the aerobic work capacity of patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome and compare it with that of two control groups, and to assess the patients' perception of their level of activity before and during illness.  DESIGN--A symptom limited exercise treadmill test with on line gas analysis and blood sampling was used.  Subjects were assessed by one investigator, who was blind to the group which they were in.  SETTING--Department of medicine, Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast.  SUBJECTS--13 Patients (10 women, three men) who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome.  Two control groups of similar age, sex, and body weight: 13 normal subjects (10 women, three men) and seven patients (five women, two men) with the irritable bowel syndrome.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Aerobic work capacity as assessed by several variables such as length of time on treadmill, heart rate, and biochemical measurements; Borg score; and visual analogue scores of perceived level of physical activity.  RESULTS--The patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome had a reduced exercise capacity compared with that of the other subjects, spending a significantly shorter time on the treadmill.  They had a significantly higher heart rate at submaximal levels of exertion and at stage III exertion had significantly higher blood lactate concentrations.  Using a Borg score, they showed a significantly altered perception of their degree of physical exertion with a mean score of 8.2 compared with 6.6 and 5.3 for the normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome respectively.  Using a visual analogue scale they indicated that they had a greater capacity for activity before illness than had the patients with the irritable bowel syndrome, but the scores were not significantly different between the two groups.  Both groups of patients indicated reduced activity at the time of testing.  Normal controls and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome aspired to a greater level of activity than their current level, but the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome aspired to a level similar to that which they had had before their illness.  CONCLUSIONS--Patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome have reduced aerobic work capacity compared with normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome.  They also have an altered perception of their degree of exertion and their premorbid level of physical activity.
Bone lysis in well-fixed cemented femoral components.  We have reviewed 25 cases of focal femoral osteolysis in radiographically stable, cemented femoral implants.  In three hips retrieved at post-mortem from two patients, we have been able to make a detailed biomechanical and histological analysis.  The interval between arthroplasty and the appearance of focal osteolysis on clinical radiographs ranged from 40 to 168 months, and in over 70% of the cases this did not appear until after five or more years.  Few had significant pain and there was no relation to age, sex or original diagnosis.  The most common site for osteolysis were Gruen zones 2 and 3 on the anteroposterior radiograph and zones 5 and 6 on the lateral radiograph.  In 15 cases (60%), the area of osteolysis corresponded to either a defect in the cement mantle or an area of very thin cement.  The rate of progression of these lesions was variable, but to date only one has progressed to gross loosening of the femoral component.  The back-scatter scanning electron microscopic examination of serial sections and biomechanical testing of the post-mortem specimens demonstrated focal cement fracture around implants that were otherwise rigidly fixed.  In eight cases from which tissue was available, histology showed a histiocytic reaction with evidence of particulate polymethylmethacrylate.  We consider that this local fragmentation was the stimulus for local osteolysis in an otherwise stable cemented femoral component.
Lumbar discography followed by computed tomography. Refining the diagnosis of low-back pain.  Two hundred fifty patients with low-back pain who underwent lumbar discography followed by computed tomography (CT) are the subject of this prospective study.  In 93% of the patients, these combined imaging techniques provided additional useful diagnostic information that affected patient management and the selection of treatment alternatives.  Lumbar discography followed by CT proved valuable in determining the significance of equivocal or multiple level abnormalities, determining the type of disc herniation, defining surgical options, and evaluating the previously operated spine.  In 94% of patients who had surgery, CT-discography correctly predicted the type of disc herniation as protruded, extruded, sequestrated, or internally disrupted.  Computed tomography-discography may be more sensitive that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the early stages of disc degeneration because 18 of 177 discs with a normal T2-weighted image were discographically abnormal and the CT-discogram revealed annular tears or radial fissuring.  The radiographic morphology of the normal herniated and degenerative lumbar discs shown by CT-discography gives unique insight into the pathogenesis of disc degeneration.  The complications that followed the 750 discograms were one case of urticaria and one disc space infection.  Even with the availability of high resolution CT and MRI, lumbar discography remains the only pain provocation challenge to the lumbar disc.
Shoulder arthroscopy: its role in evaluating shoulder disorders in the athlete.  We retrospectively reviewed 100 initial shoulder arthroscopies from a general sports medicine orthopaedic practice to determine if arthroscopy is helpful diagnostically and to see if specific lesions correlate well with specific diagnoses.  Seventy-two percent of the patients in the review had glenoid labral tears.  Ninety-two percent of patients who had a diagnosis of either recurrent anterior dislocation or recurrent anterior subluxation demonstrated a tear of the anterior inferior margin of the glenoid labrum.  Sixty-eight percent of patients with a diagnosis of impingement demonstrated tears at the superior margin of the labrum.  There was a significant difference between throwing and nonthrowing athletes.  Partial rotator cuff tears were noted in 18 patients, the majority occurring in throwing athletes.  Other abnormalities, such as degenerative joint changes and biceps tendon lesions, were also noted at the time of arthroscopy.  A large number of glenoid labral tears found at the time of arthroscopy appeared to be associated with conditions other than instability, which may or may not affect the throwing athlete.  There also appeared to be a high correlation between tears in the anterior inferior glenoid labrum and anterior instability.  Arthroscopy enabled us to identify other significant information about the status of the biceps tendon or the undersurface of the rotator cuff.  These are areas in which problems might otherwise have been missed.  Degenerative changes of the articular surface, not apparent on plain radiographs, may also be better evaluated arthroscopically.
Lumbar intervertebral disc prolapse in teenage twins. A case report and review of the literature.  We report the cases of teenage twin girls presenting within months of each other with severe symptoms from lumbosacral disc prolapses, requiring laminectomy in one and chemonucleolysis in the other.  CT scans showed similarities in spinal configuration, including the presence of disc bulges at the L4-5 level.  This suggests a strong hereditary factor in prolapse of intervertebral discs, but a review of the literature showed little information on that aspect.
Evaluation of anterior maxillary alveolar ridge resorption when opposed by the transmandibular implant.  Fifteen edentulous patients with complaints regarding denture comfort and/or function were treated with the transmandibular implant.  All patients were restored with conventional maxillary dentures opposed by implant-supported removable prostheses.  Two to 4 years after surgery, these patients were evaluated for vertical and horizontal maxillary bone loss with a radiographic analysis developed by the authors.  With this technique, attention was focused on vertical alveolar ridge resorption in the anterior maxilla.  Although the sample size was small, the findings from this study indicate that vertical bone loss in the anterior maxilla does occur when a maxillary denture is opposed by an implant-supported overdenture.  Comparison of these results with a previous study that evaluated anterior maxillary resorption when a complete maxillary denture opposed natural mandibular anterior teeth and a distal extension removable partial denture demonstrated no statistically significant difference.
Indirect revascularization of the lower extremity by means of microvascular free-muscle flap--a preliminary report.  We describe the treatment of a patient with end-stage peripheral vascular disease and ischemic ulceration of the lower extremity in whom an obliteration of the distal arterial bed precluded conventional arterial reconstruction.  A nonhealing dorsal foot ulcer was debrided, and soft tissue reconstruction was accomplished by the free microsurgical transfer of a muscle flap to the distal lower extremity.  Arterial inflow to this free flap was provided by a contralateral reversed saphenous vein graft from the proximal arterial tree of the leg.  This procedure resulted in a healed wound, stable coverage, and limb salvage.  The patient also noted complete relief of rest pain and improvement in his claudication symptoms.  A follow-up arteriogram was done 2 months after surgery.  Contrast injection directly into the artery of this flap showed new blood vessel growth from the muscle flap into the foot with anastomoses of these "new vessels" to the patient's native circulation.  This experience suggests that limb salvage may be possible by the free microvascular transplantation of a muscle flap onto the limb in selected patients whose limbs are deemed "nonreconstructible.".
Lymphoma presenting as a periorbital tumor.  Lymphoma is a common tumor of the periorbital region.  Facial radiographs may show a soft tissue mass.  Radiologic differential diagnosis of orbital masses is difficult.  Computed tomographic scanning with intravenous contrast medium is useful in diagnosing and staging neoplasms in this area.
The operative treatment of progressive early onset scoliosis. A preliminary report.  Thirteen patients with progressive early onset scoliosis have been managed operatively in an attempt to achieve correction without bracing and to allow the spine to grow.  All had posterior segmental spinal instrumentation (SSI) without fusion and 9 of 13 had anterior apical growth arrest as a separate additional procedure.  At 2-year follow-up, curve correction averaged 46%.  Patients who had anterior apical growth arrest and SSI without fusion had less curve deterioration than those who had SSI alone.  New methods are described for 1) measuring growth of the instrumented segment of the spine and 2) calculating the predicted growth of the instrumented segment.  Eight of the 13 had more than 50% of predicted growth, three had 30-50% of predicted growth, and two had less than 30% of predicted growth.  Operative treatment has been successful in the short term in all but the most malignant form of infantile idiopathic scoliosis.
Examination by logistic regression modelling of the variables which increase the relative risk of elderly women falling compared to elderly men.  In a community based, prospective study to determine risk factors for falls, 465 women and 296 men 70 years and over were followed for 1 year and 507 falls were documented.  A greater proportion of women (32.7%) than men (23.0%) experienced at least one fall in which there was no or minimal external contribution.  Using unconditional logistic regression models we investigated the effect of physical and sociological variables on the sex difference in fall rate.  Controlling for the variables age, use of psychotropic drugs, inability to rise from a chair without using arms, going outdoors less than daily and living alone decreased the relative risk of women falling compared to men from 2.02 (95% CI, 1.40-2.92) to 1.55 (95% CI 1.04-2.31).  Some of the increased risk of falling associated with being a women was able to be explained and is potentially correctable.  But even after controlling for the physical and social variables which we had assessed, women compared to men still had a significantly increased relative risk of falling.
Hypertension after operative correction of club-foot deformity.  Severe hypertension occurred as a postoperative complication after correction of a club-foot deformity in four children (seven feet) who were between the ages of two and three years and had no history of hypertension.  The hypertension subsided slowly after administration of antihypertensive medications or more rapidly after release of the correction that had been obtained operatively.
Imidazole salicylate versus piroxicam in the treatment of arthrosis in elderly patients. A double-blind clinical and endoscopic trial.  The clinical efficacy and gastroduodenal tolerability of imidazole salicylate (imidazole 2-hydroxybenzoate, ITF 182), a new synthetic drug with an anti-inflammatory action, was evaluated endoscopically in comparison with those of piroxicam in elderly patients suffering from osteoarthrosis.  Of the 41 patients entering the trial, only 38 completed the protocol (6 men and 32 women; mean age, 71; range, 65-80 years).  After upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for the purpose of excluding gastric and duodenal mucosal lesions, the patients were allocated at random, according to a double-blind, double-dummy protocol, to treatment either with imidazole salicylate 750 mg three times daily or with piroxicam 20 mg once daily for a period of 4 weeks.  Imidazole salicylate proved active in controlling a number of the pain symptoms caused by arthrosis, although its efficacy was inferior to that of piroxicam.  Grade 2 gastric mucosal lesions were detected in 1 of 20 patients (5%) treated with imidazole salicylate; lesions corresponding to grades 2, 3, and 4 were found in 6 of 18 (33%) of those treated with piroxicam (P = .034).  Painful dyspepsia was reported by 15% of the patients in the imidazole salicylate group and by 28% of those in the piroxicam group.  On the basis of these results and under the experimental conditions adopted in this trial, the authors concluded that imidazole salicylate is characterized by good gastric tolerability and can thus be used in the treatment of rheumatic diseases in the elderly.
Psoriatic arthropathy of the temporomandibular joint.  A case of psoriatic arthritis of both temporomandibular joints is described with a brief review of the literature and discussion on the management of this condition.  To date, psoriatic arthritis has been successfully treated by conservative means.  In the case reported, surgical replacement of the condyles became necessary to eliminate pain and restore function.
Alcohol and bone disease.  Alcohol is considered to be an important risk factor for various bone diseases but recent studies have shown that moderate alcohol intake can be beneficial to bone structure.  Alcohol decreases osteoblastic activity, leading to decreased bone formation and defective mineralization.  The changes reported in calciotropic hormones, mainly vitamin D and parathyroid hormone, are observed due in part to a deficient intestinal absorption of vitamin D and an inadequate synthesis of its hepatic metabolite, although greater emphasis has been given to dietary deficiencies or lack of exposure to sun.  The changes in parathyroid hormone are not consistent and since there is no greater incidence of hyperparathyroidism in alcoholic patients, it suggests that alcohol does not have a long-term effect on the parathyroid glands.  Alcohol increases calcitonin secretion acutely; calcitonin is an inhibitor of bone resorption and may be the mechanism by which moderate alcohol intake protects bone structure.  Alcohol increases urinary calcium, magnesium and zinc excretion.  Zinc deficiency has been postulated as a cause of oesteoporisis because it causes hypogonadism.  The decrease in the levels of the gonadal hormones and the increase of cortisol, observed in chronic alcoholics, may indirectly cause osteopenia and aseptic necrosis.  To these actions must be added the acidosis due to alcohol and the greater tendency of the alcoholic to fall, all of which influence bone changes and increase the incidence of bone fractures.
Estrogen prophylaxis. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.  Recommendation: Although routine postmenopausal estrogen replacement is not recommended, estrogen therapy should be considered for asymptomatic women who are at increased risk for osteoporosis, who lack known contraindications and who have received adequate counseling about potential benefits and risks.
Comparison of quantitative sensory-threshold measures for their association with foot ulceration in diabetic patients.  We compared the accuracy of cutaneous pressure perception-threshold measurements with that of other sensory-threshold measurements for detecting diabetic foot ulcer patients.  Three hundred fourteen non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients were studied, of whom 91 had either a current foot ulcer or a history of foot ulceration.  Foot ulcer patients had much higher pressure perception thresholds at the hallux than those without foot ulcers (mean +/- SE 4.63 +/- 0.05 vs.  3.54 +/- 0.04 U, P less than 0.001).  The magnitude of association was higher than that for vibration thresholds and markedly greater than those for cool and warm thresholds.  Pressure thresholds were highly accurate for identifying foot ulcer patients.  At a threshold level of 4.21 U, the sensitivity was 0.84, with a specificity of 0.96.  At similar sensitivities for vibration and thermal thresholds, specificities were lower.  Foot ulceration and cutaneous pressure perception threshold are strongly associated.  Pressure-threshold measurements are extremely accurate and perform at least as well as other quantitative sensory tests in identifying foot ulcer patients.  Assessment of the foot pressure threshold may have promise as a simple and inexpensive method for detecting diabetic patients at risk for foot ulcers.
The use of liposuction to contour cherubism.  Yet another application of suction lipectomy equipment is presented to remove the pathologic tissue in cherubism.  Owing to the variations of consistency of the material in this condition, this technique may not be successful in all patients, but it is certainly recommended when indicated.
The inwardly pointing knee. An unrecognized problem of external rotational malalignment.  Twelve patients with inwardly pointing knees had chronic knee pain and disability suggestive of patellofemoral subluxation.  None had responded well to conservative measures or surgical correction at the level of the soft tissues.  Their pattern of limb alignment was studied roentgenographically and was found to differ significantly from the control group of 49 healthy young adults.  The deformities primarily related to the tibia were external tibial torsion, excess varus angulation of the tibial plateau, and varus knees.  Angulation of the femoral condyles was normal and femoral anteversion did not appear to contribute significantly to the deformity.  Surgery in seven cases (nine knees) was by derotation valgus Maquet osteotomy of the tibia and lateral release realignment of the patellae.  Outcome assessments after a three-year follow-up period (five knees) were excellent.  Early results on the remaining cases were satisfactory.
Failed acromioplasty for impingement syndrome.  We evaluated 67 shoulders in 65 patients who had pain and dysfunction for more than two years after an initial acromioplasty for impingement syndrome without a rotator cuff tear.  In addition to a thorough history, physical examination, local anaesthesia injection and any other necessary investigations all patients had arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder.  In 27 shoulders there had been diagnostic errors, and in 28 operative errors; only in 12 had the diagnosis and the operative procedure both been correct.  Subsequent operative intervention in patients not receiving worker's compensation benefit had a 75% success rate, whereas in those receiving such benefits the success rate was only 46%.
Type XI collagen-degrading activity in human osteoarthritic cartilage.  Homogenates of 6 samples of human osteoarthritic cartilage were shown to degrade exogenous type XI collagen.  On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the cleavage products generated by each homogenate were similar, and they were identical to those obtained by cleavage of the substrate with purified gelatinase.  Enzyme activity, which was inhibited by EDTA, was greater in extracts of fibrillated osteoarthritic cartilage than in extracts of grossly normal cartilage from the same joint or in extracts of cartilage from joints with osteonecrosis.  Activation with APMA enhanced digestion, but breakdown was apparent in extracts of fibrillated osteoarthritic cartilage even without APMA.  Enzymatic degradation of type XI collagen could play a significant role in the turnover of articular cartilage in health and disease states.
Nucleus-driven multiple large-scale deletions of the human mitochondrial genome: a new autosomal dominant disease.  We studied several affected and one nonaffected individuals belonging to three unrelated pedigrees.  The pathological trait was an autosomal dominant mitochondrial myopathy due to large-scale multiple deletions of the mitochondrial genome.  Clinically, symptomatic patients had progressive external ophthalmoplegia, muscle weakness and wasting, sensorineural hypoacusia, and, in some cases, vestibular areflexia and tremor.  The muscle biopsies of all patients examined showed ragged-red fibers, neurogenic changes, and a partially decreased histochemical reaction to cytochrome c oxidase.  Multiple mtDNA heteroplasmy was detected in the patients by both Southern blot analysis and PCR amplification, whereas the unaffected individual had the normal homoplasmic hybridization pattern.  These findings confirm and add further details to the existence of a new human disease--defined clinically as a mitochondrial myopathy, genetically as a Mendelian autosomal dominant trait, and molecularly by the accumulation of multiple, large-scale deletions of the mitochondrial genome--that is due to impaired nuclear control during mtDNA replication.
The patellofemoral joint after total knee arthroplasty without patellar resurfacing.  One hundred total knee replacements with a total condylar prosthesis and without patellar resurfacing were followed for a minimum of two years.  Eighty-four per cent of the knees were affected by osteoarthrosis.  Graded according to the knee-rating system of the Hospital for Special Surgery, there were eighteen excellent, fifty-three good, eighteen fair, and eleven poor results.  At the most recent follow-up, twenty-nine knees (29 per cent), nine of which were affected by rheumatoid arthritis, were still painful in the patellofemoral area.  The height and weight of the patient definitely influenced the amount of patellofemoral pain postoperatively.  Small patients who had osteoarthrosis were exceptionally free of pain, regardless of sex, age, or level of activity.  It seems that the best approach to patellofemoral replacement includes resurfacing of the patella in all patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and in patients who have osteoarthrosis if they have preoperative patellofemoral pain, are more than 160 centimeters tall, weigh more than sixty kilograms, and have advanced changes in the patella at the time of the operation.
Making core decompression work.  Meaningful assessment of a treatment modality for osteonecrosis (ON) must take into account a number of factors: (1) an accurate diagnosis, (2) consistent staging of the disease process, (3) understanding of the variability of the disease, (4) consistent application of the treatment modality (or the surgical technique), and (5) a clear understanding of the goal of the treatment used.  This article reviews the important steps of a diagnostic algorithm that has been used to accurately diagnose and stage the disease process of ON.  A consistent surgical technique with clearly defined goals is also outlined.  The results of two clinical studies that were based on these diagnostic and therapeutic philosophies and that assess the role of core decompression in the treatment of ON are reviewed.  The first study compared core decompression to conservative management in a prospective randomized study of 55 hips.  Decompression provided more predictable pain relief and changed the indications for further surgical intervention more consistently than did conservative management.  The second study represents a preliminary review of a ten-year study of the decompression procedure; it showed that core decompression was particularly useful in Stage I and Stage II ON.  Roentgenographic stabilization was most predictable for Stage I hips.  Core decompression can be a safe, effective, and predictable procedure in the treatment of Stage I and Stage II ON.
The influence of joint line position on knee stability after condylar knee arthroplasty.  Using a special knee-testing device, ten knees obtained at autopsy were subjected to varus-valgus, anterior-posterior, and flexion-rotation analysis in the intact state and after total knee arthroplasty.  The ten knees showed no significant change in stability after knee replacement when the joint line was maintained in its natural position.  When the femoral component was repositioned 5 mm proximally and 5 mm anteriorly, a significant increase in laxity occurred during midflexion.  When the joint line was shifted 5 mm distal and 5 mm posterior to its anatomic location, significant tightening occurred in midrange of motion.  Coupled rotation of the tibia with knee flexion was decreased after surgery in all knees with no specific relationship to joint line position.  Coupled rotation with varus-valgus testing, however, remained within the normal range through the first 30 degrees of flexion only when the joint line was restored to its normal anatomic position.  Stability in condylar knee arthroplasty is in part dependent on position of the joint line.  Surgical techniques that rely on restoring the flexion and extension gap without regard to joint line position may result in alteration of varus-valgus or anterior-posterior displacement in midrange flexion.
Quantitative evaluation of digital dental radiograph imaging systems.  Two digital imaging systems, a video camera and analog-to-digital converter, and a charge-coupled device linear photodiode array slide scanner, were tested for their suitability in quantitative studies of periodontal disease.  The information content in the original films was estimated, and digital systems were assessed according to these requirements.  Radiometric and geometric performance criteria for the digital systems were estimated from measurements and observations.  The scanner-based image acquisition (digitization) system had no detectable noise and had a modulation transfer function curve superior to that of the video-based system.  The scanner-based system was equivalent to the video-based system in recording radiographic film densities and had more geometric distortion than the video-based system.  The comparison demonstrated the superiority of the charge-coupled device linear array system for the quantification of periodontal disease extent and activity.
Avascular necrosis of bone: a common serious complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.  PURPOSE: To describe the incidence, presentation, clinical course, and management of avascular necrosis of bone following bone marrow transplantation, and to identify risk factors related to its development and outcome.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients developing avascular necrosis after transplantation between March 1974 and May 1988 were identified by means of the Minnesota Bone Marrow Transplant Database and hospital records and included in analysis.  Of 902 consecutive patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation, 28 developed avascular necrosis of bone.  RESULTS: Twenty-eight of 642 allogeneic transplant recipients (10.4% by product limit estimate) developed avascular necrosis compared to zero of 260 autologous transplant recipients.  Symptoms developed 1 to 62 months (median 12 months) after transplantation.  In the 28 patients a total of 91 joints were affected (mean 3.3 per patient, range one to eight joints).  The hip joint was most often involved (64% of patients), followed by knee (61%), ankle (29%), shoulder (21%), and elbow (7%).  Initial standard radiographs were negative in 13 patients, while in nine patients, technetium-99 scans and/or magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated changes of osteonecrosis before changes on routine radiographs.  Almost all patients had received steroid prophylaxis and therapy for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).  We observed a significant correlation between the total cumulative dose of steroids and number of joints involved (p less than 0.01).  A multivariate analysis (allogeneic transplant patients only) identified acute or chronic GVHD requiring steroid therapy (p = 0.003), and increasing age (p = 0.002) as significant and independent risk factors.  Fourteen patients required surgery, including joint replacement in 11 patients.  In six of six patients, hip core decompression failed to halt disease progression, and total hip arthroplasty was subsequently required.  CONCLUSION: Avascular necrosis of bone is a frequent late complication of bone marrow transplantation, causing significant morbidity and often requiring surgery; diagnosis using conventional imaging techniques may be difficult and treatment remains inadequate.
Computer-assisted tomography of scoliosis operated with or without Harrington's rod. Biomechanics aspects of the fusion.  Forty-eight cases of posterior vertebral arthrodesis for scoliosis, performed with or without instrumentation, were examined using computed tomography (CT) scanning to study the evolving fusion mass.  The authors observed that the fusion mass area is more voluminous in the cases performed without instrumentation than in the ones performed with instrumentation, and that 2 years after fusion the bone mass shows already a considerable increase.  For the cases operated with Harrington's technique, the increase of the fusion mass is very slow and becomes considerable 5 years after operation.  In both series, the section of the fusion masses at the apex of the curve is asymmetric (with prevalence on the concave side), with an area of central resorption that shows the structure of a long bone (box section).
Asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology.  A 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 IU/L after his appendectomy.  These abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms, fever, and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis.  At the time of operation, a normal appendix was removed, and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted.  The myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient, and the patient remained asymptomatic.  We review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents.  The possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed.
Sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis: two cases with differing dermatologic syndromes.  Sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis is a rare rheumatic condition characterized by ossification and erosion of the clavicle and the first rib, that has been shown to be associated with pustular skin lesions.  We present 2 cases, one of which had features of pustulosis palmaris et plantaris and the other dissecting cellulitis of the scalp.  Although the dermatologic manifestations differ, both cases have rheumatologic and roentgenographic features diagnostic of sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis.
Arthrometric evaluation of knees that have a torn anterior cruciate ligament.  We used the KT-1000 arthrometer to test the knees of 107 patients who had an acute tear of the anterior cruciate ligament, 153 patients who had a chronic tear, and 141 control subjects, for a total of 401 individuals.  The three testing parameters were the extent of anterior translation at eighty-nine newtons of force and at maximum manual force, and the compliance index.  The differences between the involved and the uninvolved knees were calculated.  At eighty-nine newtons, all but one of the control subjects had anterior translation of ten millimeters or less, compared with 58 per cent of the patients who had a chronic tear.  At maximum manual force, all but two of the control subjects had translation of ten millimeters or less, compared with 20 per cent of the patients who had an acute or a chronic tear.  Analysis of variance showed that the clinical diagnosis correlated well with the results for all tests (p less than 0.001).  However, when the uninjured knees of patients who had an acute or a chronic tear were compared with the knees of the control subjects, significant differences were noted (p less than 0.001 to 0.006).  In the patients who had a chronic tear, there was no relationship between the time from injury to operation and the extent of anterior translation.  The arthrometric test at maximum manual force was the strongest discriminant; it differentiated normal from abnormal knees (p less than 0.001) with high sensitivity (92 per cent), high specificity (95 per cent), and high positive predictive accuracy; the cut-off point was eleven millimeters or less.
Histologic, biochemical, and ion analysis of tissue and fluids retrieved during total hip arthroplasty.  Large amounts of metal and polyethylene debris and high ion readings are found in capsule and fibrous membranes of both loose titanium and cobalt-chromium stems.  Prostaglandin E2, interleukin-1, and collagenase levels are elevated when compared to control values with collagenase having the highest and most consistent elevations.  Synovial fluid and blood ion readings were elevated in loose cemented and cementless stems made from both materials.  Blood ion readings were not elevated in fixed stems.  Fixed stems had much less particulate debris in soft tissues.  The data showed that failure of most metal hip stems was initially due to a mechanical cause, with high debris and ion counts occurring secondarily in capsule and fibrous membranes.  Particulate debris and high ion readings are primarily a focal problem contained by the periprosthetic fibrous connective-tissue encapsulation within the femoral canal and joint capsules.  No systemic problems were manifest in any of the patients examined and followed in this study.
Soft tissue rheumatism of the upper extremities: diagnosis and management.  Upper extremity tendinitis and bursitis are usually the result of repetitive microtrauma, probably resulting in disruption of fibers.  A focus of inflammation often occurs, producing pain, spasm, and disability.  With a careful history and physical exam, the diagnosis can be made, distinguishing soft tissue rheumatism from arthritis.  Treatment consists of rest, heat or ice, and frequently, the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or injections to control the inflammatory response.  Protection from repeated trauma may be beneficial in preventing recurrence.
The effect of stem stiffness on femoral bone resorption after canine porous-coated total hip arthroplasty.  Bilateral noncemented total hip arthroplasty (THA) was produced in dogs to determine the effect of stem stiffness on stress-related bone resorption.  Two porous-coated femoral implants of substantially different stiffnesses were designed for direct comparison.  One was manufactured from cobalt-chromium (CoCr) alloy, the other from titanium alloy.  The titanium stem was hollowed out to a wall thickness of 1 mm to further reduce its stiffness.  The cumulative stiffness differences were about 5.4-fold axially and 3.6-fold in bending and torsion.  Staged bilateral THA was performed on eight dogs.  Each dog received a stiff CoCr stem on one side and a flexible titanium stem on the other.  After death, the femora were removed and processed for undecalcified thin-section histology.  Bone ingrowth and remodeling were quantified by computer-aided image analysis and compared between stem designs.  All femoral specimens showed bone ingrowth fixation of both stiff and flexible stems along the implant length.  Tetracycline labeling indicated active bone turnover in the femoral cortex and in regions of ingrowth.  However, gross differences in femoral bone remodeling were observed both roentgenographically and histologically.  Femora with the flexible stems consistently showed much less bone resorption than those with the stiff stems.  Quantitative analysis of paired cross-sections indicated an average of 25%-35% more cortical bone area in the femora with flexible stems.  Severe resorption of the cortex in the midstem region occurred in three of the femora with the stiff stems but in none with the flexible stems.  Stem stiffness strongly influences bone remodeling.  The flexible stem results in more uniform load transfer and less stress shielding.
The little women of Loja--growth hormone-receptor deficiency in an inbred population of southern Ecuador.  BACKGROUND AND METHODS.  Laron-type dwarfism, which is characterized by the clinical appearance of isolated growth hormone deficiency with elevated serum levels of growth hormone and decreased serum levels of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), has been described in approximately 50 patients.  This condition is caused by a deficiency of the cellular receptor for growth hormone, and it is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait, as indicated by an equal sex distribution and a high rate of consanguinity in affected families.  We studied 20 patients (19 females and 1 male, 2 to 49 years of age), from an inbred Spanish population in southern Ecuador, who had the clinical features of Laron-type dwarfism.  RESULTS.  Seventeen patients were members of two large pedigrees.  Among the 13 affected sibships, there were 19 affected and 24 unaffected female siblings and 1 affected and 21 unaffected male siblings.  The patients' heights ranged from 10.0 to 6.7 SD below the normal mean height for age in the United States.  In addition to the previously described features, 15 patients had limited elbow extensibility, all had blue scleras, affected adults had relatively short extremities, and all four affected women over 30 years of age had hip degeneration.  Basal serum concentrations of growth hormone were elevated in all affected children (30 to 160 micrograms per liter) and normal to moderately elevated in the adults.  The serum level of growth hormone-binding protein ranged from 1 to 30 percent of normal; IGF-I concentrations were low--less than or equal to 7 micrograms per liter in the children and less than or equal to 66 micrograms per liter in the adults (normal for Ecuadorean women, 98 to 238).  Serum levels of IGF-II and growth hormone-dependent IGF-binding protein-3 were also low.  CONCLUSIONS.  We describe an inbred population with a high incidence of growth hormone-receptor deficiency resulting in a clinical picture resembling Laron-type dwarfism but differing principally in showing a marked predominance of affected females.  This population, of Mediterranean origin, may be genetically related to other reported populations with Laron-type dwarfism, but with the genetic defect linked to a trait resulting in the early fetal death of most affected males.
Pseudotumor of the craniocervical junction during long-term hemodialysis.  A systematic study of the upper cervical spine was performed using magnetic resonance imaging in 25 patients (15 men and 10 women) who had been undergoing hemodialysis for more than 10 years.  Seven pseudotumors of the periodontoid soft tissue were disclosed, which were similar to the pannus recently described in rheumatoid arthritis.  Bone cystic radiolucencies were observed in association with these pseudotumors in 5 patients.  The radiolucencies were located in the atlas (1 in the lateral mass and 1 in the anterior branch) and in the axis (3 in the odontoid process and 1 in the vertebral body).  No horizontal or vertical atlantoaxial subluxation was demonstrated.  These features were observed only in patients who had amyloid arthropathy.  They could be a frequent, yet thus far little-recognized, feature of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis.
Diastrophic dysplasia gene maps to the distal long arm of chromosome 5.  We have used polymorphic DNA markers to map the gene for a clinically well-characterized form of osteochondrodysplasia, diastrophic dysplasia (DD), an autosomal recessive disorder of unknown pathogenesis.  Linkage was analyzed in 13 families with two or three affected sibs comprising a total of 84 individuals.  Positive two-point logarithm-of-odds (lod) scores were obtained between the DD locus and three polymorphic markers on chromosome 5.  The highest pairwise lod score estimate of 7.37 with zero recombination to locus D5S72 suggests very tight linkage.  There was no evidence of heterogeneity.  Multipoint linkage analysis against the published order of the three loci gave the result centromere-D5S84-(DD, D5S72)-D5S61-terminus with a four-point lod score of 9.11.  The present findings place the DD locus distal to the gene for adenomatous polyposis coli on the distal part of the long arm of chromosome 5.  Our results provide a basis for refining the map position of the DD locus followed by physical localization, isolation, and characterization of the gene.
Patients with arthritis and anti-U1-RNP antibodies: a 10-year follow-up.  Five hundred and forty patients attending a rheumatology ward were screened for antinuclear antibodies (ANA) by indirect immunofluorescence (IFL).  Seventy had a significant titre of ANA.  Twenty-three had U1-ribonucleoprotein antibodies (U1-RNP-ab).  The clinical findings in U1-RNP-ab-positive patients were consistent with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD).  Disease was more serious in the U1-RNP-ab-positive patients in terms of polyarthritis severity as well as mortality due to rheumatic disease.  Thus, in this arthritis patient population, U1-RNP-ab positivity predicted an aggressive disease characterized by an erosive arthritis.
A case of group B streptococcal pyomyositis   The group B streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias, puerperal sepsis, and neonatal meningitis.  Group B streptococcal infections of muscle are rare.  We report here an unusual case of group B streptococcal pyomyositis.  Pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus and, occasionally, Streptococcus pyogenes.  Because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates, the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms, and the frequently negative blood cultures, considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis; in fact, the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma, cellulitis, thrombophlebitis, osteomyelitis, or neoplasm.  Diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections.  The response to antibiotics is usually rapid, but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses.  This report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen.
Prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in elderly women.  To better understand which women use estrogen replacement therapy, we examined the prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in 9704 nonblack women, age greater than or equal to 65 years, who participated in the multicenter prospective Study of Osteoporotic Fractures.  Overall, 13.7% of women reported current use of oral estrogen; 10.9% took estrogen alone and 2.8% took estrogen opposed by progestin.  Four percent currently used parenteral estrogen compounds.  Current use declined sharply with age from 17% at age 65 to 4% at age greater than or equal to 85.  The primary determinant of estrogen replacement therapy was the type of menopause; the odds of using estrogen replacement therapy in current users compared with never users were approximately five times higher in women with a surgical menopause.  Estrogen use was more common among women who had higher levels of education and were less obese.  Furthermore, estrogen replacement therapy users were more likely to drink alcohol and to participate in sports and recreation.  A diagnosis of osteoporosis was the major determinant of continued estrogen use, but only 24% of women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis used estrogen replacement therapy.  We conclude that only a small proportion of elderly women in the United States use estrogen replacement therapy.  Selection factors for use of estrogen are evident and may introduce bias in studies of estrogen and disease.  In consideration of the distribution of these selection factors, estrogen users will tend to be at lower risk of coronary disease and possibly breast cancer but at greater risk for hip fractures.
Intravenous pulse cyclophosphamide therapy in myositis and Sjogren's syndrome.  We describe a patient with primary Sjogren's syndrome who developed myositis.  The results of muscle pathologic analysis before and after treatment with monthly pulses of cyclophosphamide (intravenously), are presented.
Polymyositis: a case history approach to the differential diagnosis and treatment.  A wide range of conditions can mimic polymyositis.  Thus, diagnosing this condition can be a challenge.  Although no single criterion is diagnostic of polymyositis, the following criteria have been proposed and widely used: (1) symmetric proximal muscle weakness; (2) characteristic violaceous rash on the hands, elbows, and knees; (3) increased muscle enzymes in the serum; (4) characteristic electromyographic findings (insertional activity, fibrillation potentials, motor unit potentials of increased frequency and decreased duration, and normal conduction velocity in nerves); and (5) muscle biopsy specimen with characteristic inflammatory and myopathic changes.  Although polymyositis primarily involves muscle, up to 20% of patients may have extramuscular problems.  The main treatment for polymyositis is high-dose corticosteroids.  In corticosteroid-resistant patients, methotrexate is often effective.  In this report, case histories are presented to highlight the usefulness and the limitations of the common diagnostic criteria for polymyositis.
Intra-osseous pressure and oxygen tension in avascular necrosis and osteoarthritis of the hip.  The intra-osseous pressure, PO2, and PCO2 were measured in 32 hips (21 patients) which were painful but showed no severe degenerative changes.  Pre-operative scintigraphy and radiography was performed in all patients.  Thirteen hips showed early osteoarthritis, eight had early osteonecrosis, and 11 had no changes.  Core biopsies were performed and the bone was examined histologically and graded for necrosis.  Histologically, necrosis was present in 27 specimens.  Scintigraphic findings did not correlate with the histological results but were more closely related to the radiographic findings.  The intra-osseous pressure in hips with histological necrosis (mean 47 mmHg) was significantly higher than in hips without necrosis (mean 26 mmHg).  The PO2 was lower in bone with histological necrosis (mean 44 mmHg) than in bone without (mean 71 mmHg).  PO2 increased and intra-osseous pressure decreased after decompression.  The results confirm that ischaemia plays a central role in the development of necrotic changes in bone.  Histological necrosis was found in hips with radiographic signs of osteonecrosis and in those with osteoarthritis.  Radiography, and scintigraphy are shown to be insensitive methods for differentiating between those disorders.
1990 Volvo Award in clinical sciences. Lumbar spinal pathology in cadaveric material in relation to history of back pain, occupation, and physical loading.  The occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration, anular ruptures, end-plate defects, vertebral body osteophytosis, and facet joint osteoarthrosis was examined radiographically and osteologically in 86 male cadavers for whom occupational, physical loading, and back pain histories were obtained from the men's families.  History of back pain and the parameters of spinal pathology were related to the highest and lowest degrees of physical loading.  In multivariate analyses, history of back injury was related to the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration, anular ruptures, and vertebral osteophytosis.  Symmetric disc degeneration was associated with sedentary work, and vertebral osteophytosis was related to heavy work.  History of back pain was related to occupational physical loading after control for the effects of the other covariates.  The results indicate that the least pathology stemmed from moderate or mixed physical loading, but the least back pain was associated with sedentary work.
Dermatoses associated with sterile lytic bone lesions.  In recent years several dermatoses, palmoplantar pustulosis, acne fulminans, and Sweet's syndrome, have been associated with sterile lytic bone lesions.  This article discusses the clinical, laboratory, and histologic findings of these disorders and postulates a common mechanism underlying the bone lesions.
Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia of Maroteaux.  The cases of four patients who had an unusual clinical entity of disproportionately short stature, referred to as spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia of Maroteaux, are described.  In patients who have this syndrome, the abnormalities are confined to the musculoskeletal system.  The patients do not have corneal opacities or increased excretion of keratosulphate.  The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal dominant.  Platyspondylysis is present but there are no anterior tongue-like deformities of the vertebral bodies.  Because of the presence of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and normal intelligence, and the lack of abnormalities at birth, this entity seems to mimic Morquio syndrome.  However, unlike Morquio syndrome, the disorder involves no biochemical abnormalities.  Thus, the entity may be classified as new.
Effects of 2% lignocaine on somatosensory evoked potentials recorded in the extradural space.  We have studied the effects of extradural administration of 2% lignocaine at the L3-4 interspace on somatosensory evoked potentials recorded in the cervical extradural space before corrective surgery for idiopathic adolescent scoliosis.  Eight patients in whom the equivalent volume of 0.9% sodium chloride solution was administered into the lumbar extradural space acted as a control group.  Lignocaine 2% resulted in a decrease in overall amplitude, but its main effect was a significant decrease in the amplitude of the second and third peaks, suggesting an action on the dorsal columns of the spinal cord.  A significant increase in latency was found in both the lignocaine and sodium chloride groups.  We conclude that the use of extradural 2% lignocaine in patients undergoing scoliosis surgery may interfere with the intraoperative monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials.
Pyogenic sacroiliitis in a rural population.  We describe 10 cases of pyogenic sacroiliitis occurring in a rural population.  Seven were male and 3 were female with a mean age of 22.4 years.  None was a recent intravenous drug abuser.  Five patients had a history of recent pelvic trauma.  99mTechnetium scintiscans revealed increased sacroiliac (SI) joint uptake in 8 of 8 cases.  Blood cultures were positive in 60% of patients.  Staphylococcus aureus was isolated in 7 cases from blood and/or SI aspirates and Hemophilus influenzae type B in one case.  Nine of 10 patients recovered completely.  One underwent arthrodesis for recurrent SI pain without evidence of relapse of infection.  Median followup was 18 months.
Quantitative electromyography in polymyositis: a reappraisal.  Manual analysis of motor unit action potentials (MUAPs) was performed in 33 patients with polymyositis of whom 16 were studied in the acute stage and 17 in the chronic stage.  Contrary to common description of "myopathic potentials" as being of low amplitude, short duration, and polyphasic shape, the quantitated study revealed no difference as to amplitude of short duration MUAPs in patients and normal subjects though short-duration MUAP and short duration polyphasic potentials were 4 and 3 times, respectively, more common in patients than in controls.  Although the mean duration of MUAPs usually was significantly shorter in polymyositis than in controls, the average scatter of MUAPs duration was the same in the 2 groups.  The average incidence of polyphasic MUAPs was 4 times higher in patients than in controls, as was the incidence of those of long duration.  To avoid misinterpretation of EMG findings due to an excess of polyphasic MUAPs, a greater number of individual potentials than usually recommended should be collected allowing a valid estimate of the mean duration of MUAPs of simple configuration.
Spontaneous resolution of bone mineral depletion in preterm infants.  Fifteen preterm infants and 17 born at full term whose gestational ages ranged from 25 to 34 weeks and 38 to 42 weeks, respectively, were examined initially at postconceptional ages ranging from 38 to 44 weeks and subsequently at 46 to 71 weeks.  Each examination included measurement of bone mineral content of the mid-forearm by single photon absorptiometry.  For the preterm group, the mean (SD) value of bone mineral content at the first examination was 109.0 (27.6) mg/cm and was significantly lower than the corresponding value of 194.4 (19.6) mg/cm for the whole full term group.  The mean subsequent rate of mineral accretion in the preterm group was 8.70 (4.60) mg/cm/week, the mean individual duration of observation being 9.7 weeks.  Rate of mineral accretion for the full term group was independent of the duration of observation and averaged 1.60 (2.20) mg/cm/week.  The difference between mean values of rate of mineral accretion in the preterm and full term groups was highly significant.  Our results show that there is a phase of rapid mineral accretion starting at 40 weeks' postconception in preterm infants that substantially reduces the perinatal mineralisation deficit.
Group C streptococcal arthritis: case report and review.  Streptococci account for approximately 15%-20% of cases of nongonococcal septic arthritis.  The majority of these are due to group A streptococci, but group B and group G streptococci are being isolated more frequently.  We present a case of group C streptococcal arthritis and summarize nine additional cases reported in the literature.  The group C streptococci include the large colony of Voges-Proskauer-negative bacteria (Streptococcus equi, Streptococcus equisimilis, Streptococcus zooepidemicus, and Streptococcus dysgalactiae) as well as as the minute colony of Voges-Proskauer-positive Streptococcus anginosus ("Streptococcus milleri") group C organisms.  Any joint may become infected, but joints affected by preexisting rheumatologic abnormalities are more frequently involved.  Bacteremia was documented in five of the 10 patients.  One patient had an associated pneumonia, and another patient had an associated acute aortic valve endocarditis.  None of the infections involved a prosthetic joint or an overlying cellulitis, associations reported for group G streptococcal arthritis.  Surgical drainage of the infected joint was required in six of the 10 patients.  We concluded that the presence of two groups of organisms sharing the same Lancefield group antigen necessitates the careful identification of isolates to determine potential clinical differences.
Prediction of hip fracture in elderly women: a prospective study   OBJECTIVE--To assess the relative importance of osteoporosis of the os calcis, cognisance, and mobility in the risk of subsequent fracture of the hip in elderly women.  DESIGN--Prospective study of elderly women in residential care over two years.  SETTING--21 Private or 38 local authority residential homes for the elderly and 4 geriatric hospitals in Doncaster and Hull.  SUBJECTS--1414 Ambulant women aged over 69, in private or local authority residential care or geriatric care.  Those who had had bilateral hip surgery were excluded.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Broad band ultrasonic attenuation (BUA) index, Clifton assessment procedures for the elderly test (for cognisance), and mobility on a six point scale, and fracture of the hip in the subsequent two year period.  RESULTS--73 Women fractured their hip during the two years.  Their mean age was not significantly different from that of the women who did not have a fracture (85.3 (SD 5.6) v 83.9 (6.3); p = 0.07), but their mean BUA index (40.3 (19.3) v 50.9 (22.2) db/MH2), and score for cognisance (median 19 (interquartile range 10.5-27.0) v 24 (17-30)) were significantly lower (both p less than 0.001).  These variables had independent associations with fracture of the hip.  Women with fractures had a significantly lower score for the psychomotor component of the cognisance test (4.5 (1-8) v 7 (2-10); p less than 0.0025 and were significantly more mobile (1(1-3) v 3 (1-6); p less than 0.02).  Subdividing women according to high, medium, and low scores for BUA index and cognisance testing disclosed a high risk group (118 women) with low BUA index and cognisance score, whose incidence of fracture was 12.8%; in the group at lowest risk (136 women) with high BUA index and cognisance score, the incidence of fracture was only 1.5% (relative risk 8.4 (95% confidence interval -2.0 to 35.5].  Further analysis showed that those most at risk were, additionally, most mobile but that less mobile women with good cognisance had a low incidence of fractures, regardless of the BUA index, (1.2%, high index, v 0.9%, low index).  CONCLUSIONS--Elderly women most at risk of sustaining hip fractures were those with low BUA index, low cognisance test score, and high mobility.  Improving bone strength and cognisance in elderly women may reduce their incidence of hip fracture.
Mother-daughter pairs: spinal and femoral bone densities and dietary intakes.  Bone mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar spine (L1-L4) and femur (femoral neck, Ward's triangle, and trochanter) was measured in 37 healthy, white mother-daughter pairs by dual-photon absorptiometry.  Mothers and daughters were aged 52 +/- 7 and 25 +/- 4 y (mean +/- SD), respectively.  Three-day dietary intakes were evaluated.  Significant correlations between mother-daughter pairs for BMD of all lumbar and femoral areas [except for L2 (r = 0.26, P = 0.054)] indicated familial resemblances in bone mineralization.  Total calcium intake was significantly correlated with three BMD values for the daughters (L2, femoral neck, and trochanter) but not for the mothers.  When mothers were classified as pre- (n = 20) or postmenopausal (n = 17), correlation coefficients for BMD were higher for premenopausal mothers and their daughters and lower for postmenopausal mothers and their daughters, except for the trochanter.  The results suggest that the nature of inheritance of bone mass of women may have at least two components, one influencing the level of peak bone mass and one related to bone loss at menopause.
Chondrosarcoma complicating total hip arthroplasty in Maffucci's syndrome.  A 70-year-old woman who was followed for 60 years for Maffucci's syndrome required a total hip arthroplasty (THA) of the right hip for degenerative arthritis.  This did not relieve pain.  Three years later, chondrosarcoma of the femur developed around the femoral component and was fatal.  The roentgenographic changes after the THA were incorrectly interpreted as being caused by infection.
Autoantibodies to the HLA-B27 sequence cross-react with the hypothetical peptide from the arthritis-associated Shigella plasmid.  We previously reported elevated serum antibody levels to a peptide representing the HLA-B27 polymorphic region (B27 peptide) in HLA-B27(+) ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients.  A plasmid (pHS-2) isolated from arthritogenic Shigella flexneri strains had been shown to encode an amino acid sequence homologous to HLA-B27.  Rabbit antibody to this sequence (pHS-2 peptide) strongly cross-reacted with B27 peptide and, to a much lesser extent, with Klebsiella nitrogenase peptide.  Serum antibody levels to pHS-2 peptide were studied in 160 spondylarthropathy patients.  12 of 115 (10.4%) AS patients, 2 of 45 (4.4%) patients with Reiter's syndrome or reactive arthritis as well as 6 of 147 (4.1%) normal controls were shown to have elevated anti-pHS-2 peptide antibodies.  Antibody levels to B27 and pHS-2 peptides were significantly correlated in 134 HLA-B27(+) patients (r = 0.333, P less than 0.001).  13 of 15 affinity-purified anti-B27 peptide antibodies from patients strongly cross-reacted with pHS-2 peptide, whereas only 3 weakly cross-reacted to nitrogenase peptide.  Leucine appeared to be a critical residue for this cross-reaction.  AS patients' anti-B27 peptide antibodies reacted with HLA-B27 transfected L cells.  These results may suggest that pHS-2 peptide more efficiently "mimics" B27 peptide than does nitrogenase peptide.  Involvement of pHS-2 in pathogenesis of spondylarthropathy through molecular mimicry mechanisms requires further study.
The older adult. A comparative assessment.  Thorough assessment of older men and women is a complex but vital part of their health care.  The ability to differentiate the changes owing to normal aging from those resulting from pathologic processes is necessary if their lives are to be as productive and enjoyable as they are prolonged.  Each body system and function must be examined or tested with this difference in mind.  Because aging occurs in different individuals at differing rates, a variety of functions may all be considered healthy or normal.  Assessment findings must be viewed through the focus of the individual person as well as that of the population.  The nurse will find opportunities to use assessment skills for older adults in many settings, ranging from independent living arrangements to institutional residential areas.  In the community, social meeting places, day-care facilities, meal sites, and shopping areas are but a few of the places where older adults may be found, alone or in groups.  Assessment opportunities can be identified or structured in any milieu.  The setting itself, as well as the needs of the older adult(s), will help to determine the complexity of the assessment activities.  The benefit to nursing of increased and expanded ability to assess the older adult is considerable.  The organized concern of science and health care with aging is a relatively recent phenomenon.  The older adults of today are unique--there are more of them than ever before, and they are living longer.  Although their lives are not without health complications, they are, in a sense, role models for the rest of us: pathfinders in aging who can, if we observe them carefully, give us insight and direction for our own healthy aging processes and those of generations to come.  Nursing is uniquely poised to use our caring methodology with the older adult.  The elderly are interested in their health and willingly cooperate with those whose assessments are knowledgeable and realistic.  Nursing is challenged to develop and implement advanced and specialized ways to identify and meet their needs.
The effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and PTH-related peptide on osteoclast resorption of bone slices in vitro: an analysis of pit size and the resorption focus.  The mechanism whereby PTH, a potent stimulator of bone resorption, may under certain circumstances exert anabolic effects on bone is not known, but it is possible that it involves reduction of the size of osteoclast resorption lacunae.  We have therefore made a detailed in vitro study of the effects of PTH and PTH-related peptide (PTHrP) on resorption by neonatal rat osteoclasts paying particular attention to the plan area of resorption pits.  In order to distinguish between increased resorption at a particular site and increased numbers of sites, we have used an eyepiece graticule to define a focus of resorption, namely an area occupying 1/116th of the bone slice, which may contain either one or several pits.  In addition we have studied the relationship between the number of pits in a resorption focus and the total area of bone resorbed at the focus.  We found that PTH and PTHrP, at doses between 2 x 10(-10) M and 2 x 10(-8) M, while exerting significant stimulatory effects on bone resorption, caused a reduction in the median plan area of pits.  An increase in the number of resorption foci was the primary stimulatory effect of PTH and PTHrP, occurring within 6 h in the case of PTH.  However, the plan area of bone resorbed at a focus showed no significant increase, despite an increase in the number of pits per focus, because as more pits were formed at a focus, the pits were smaller, thus partially dissipating the stimulatory effect of PTH on resorption.  These results are consistent with the activation of new remodeling sites by PTH in vivo.  Furthermore, the formation of smaller pits under the resorptive influence of PTH may, together with the maintenance of coupling between formation and resorption, play a role in the preservation of cancellous bone recorded in cases of primary hyperparathyroidism and the anabolic effect of exogenous PTH.
Magnetic resonance imaging and the nonoperative treatment of spinal epidural abscess.  This report describes three patients with spinal epidural abscess diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging and treated nonoperatively.  Prior to treatment, one patient was neurologically intact, one patient demonstrated a moderate neurological deficit, and one patient was severely paraparetic with loss of bladder and bowel control.  Following identification of the pathogenic organism, antibiotic therapy was continued until the patients demonstrated clinical improvement and radiological resolution of the abscess.  All patients remained stable or improved neurologically.  Analysis of 33 previously reported patients treated with antibiotics suggests that nonoperative treatment may be a reasonable alternative therapy under certain clinical conditions.  These include (1) identification of the pathogenic organism, (2) a stable neurological condition, (3) access to magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography for potentially rapid reevaluation, and (4) appropriate neurosurgical consultation and nursing care.  Nonoperative treatment may also be considered as a reasonable alternative for patients who have severe concurrent medical illness.
A distinctive triad of malformations of the central nervous system in the Meckel-Gruber syndrome.  A distinct triad of central nervous system (CNS) malformations (prosencephalic dysgenesis, occipital exencephalocele and rhombic roof dysgenesis) was present in seven cases of the Meckel-Gruber syndrome examined at autopsy.  We compared our findings with those previously described.  Microcephaly, sloping forehead, posterior occipital exencephalocele, cerebellar hypoplasia, Chiari malformation, hydrocephalus, polymicrogyria, arhinencephaly, holoprosencephaly and anencephaly constituted a broad spectrum of the reported CNS anomalies.  Few reports contained a comprehensive description of the observed CNS malformations.  In those reports, and in our cases, features of prosencephalic dysgenesis included agenesis of olfactory bulbs and tracts (arhinencephaly), hypoplasia of optic nerves and chiasm, agenesis of corpus callosum, fused thalami or complete holoprosencephaly.  The occipital encephalocele has consisted of a displacement of rhombic roof elements, including caudal third ventricle, cerebellar vermis and fourth ventricle, extruded through an enlarged posterior fontanelle rather than through an occipital cranium bifidum and is thus more precisely labeled an exencephalocele.  Different degrees of dysgenesis of posterior fossa structures, described by some as a variant of Dandy-Walker cyst with features of a Chiari malformation, were often associated with this occipital exencephalocele.  This pattern of CNS anomalies represents a triad of malformations probably associated with defective ventral induction of the developing CNS by the prechordal mesoderm.
A controlled trial of intravenous immunoglobulin G in chronic fatigue syndrome   PURPOSE: Currently, there is no established therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), a recently defined illness that has been associated with a variety of immunologic abnormalities.  Based on the hypothesis that a chronic viral infection or an immunoregulatory defect is involved in the pathogenesis of CFS, the therapeutic benefit of intravenous immunoglobulin G (IV IgG) was evaluated in a group of patients with CFS.  Additionally, serum immunoglobulin concentrations and peripheral blood lymphocyte subset numbers were measured at the outset of the study, and the effect of IV IgG therapy on IgG subclass levels was determined.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty patients with CFS were enrolled in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of IV IgG.  The treatment regimen consisted of IV IgG (1 g/kg) or intravenous placebo (1% albumin solution) administered every 30 days for 6 months.  Participants completed a self-assessment form prior to each of the six treatments, which was used to measure severity of symptoms, functional status, and health perceptions.  Patients were also asked to report adverse experiences defined as worsening of symptoms occurring within 48 hours of each treatment.  RESULTS: Twenty-eight patients completed the trial.  At baseline, all 28 patients complained of moderate to severe fatigue, and measures of social functioning and health perceptions showed marked impairment.  Low levels of IgG1 were found in 12 (42.9%), and 18 (64.3%) had low levels of IgG3.  At the end of the study, no significant therapeutic benefit could be detected in terms of symptom amelioration or improvement in functional status, despite restoration of IgG1 levels to a normal range.  Major adverse experiences were observed in 20% of both the IV IgG and placebo groups.  CONCLUSION: The results of this study indicate that IV IgG is unlikely to be of clinical benefit in CFS.  In addition to the ongoing need for placebo-controlled trials of candidate therapies for CFS, an expanded research effort is needed to define the etiology and pathogenesis of this disorder.
Perichondral grafting for cartilage lesions of the knee.  Twenty-five patients with 30 chondral lesions of the knee were treated with an autogenous strip of costal perichondrium.  The graft was fixed to the subchondral bone with Tissucol (Immuno, Vienna), a human fibrin glue.  The leg was then immobilised for two weeks followed by two weeks of continuous passive motion.  Weight-bearing was permitted after three months.  The mean knee score (Ranawat, Insall and Shine 1976) changed from 73 before operation to 90 one year after; in 14 patients evaluated after two years there was no decrease.  In 28 cases the defect was completely filled with tissue resembling articular cartilage.  We conclude that in most cases perichondral arthroplasty of cartilage defects of the knee gives excellent results.
Dermatomyositis: correlative MR imaging and P-31 MR spectroscopy for quantitative characterization of inflammatory disease   Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and phosphorus-31 MR spectroscopy were used to examine four patients with dermatomyositis and five control subjects.  T2-weighted images of the thigh muscles of patients showed increased signal intensity, with focal and inhomogeneous involvement predominantly in the vastus lateralis and secondarily in the vastus intermedius and vastus medialis.  T1 and T2 values of the vastus lateralis in patients were significantly higher than those of the control subjects.  T1 values of the rectus femoris and biceps femoris with more generalized inflammation were moderately elevated but still significantly higher than those of the control subjects.  P-31 MR spectra of the quadriceps muscles were obtained during rest, during exercise at two graded levels, and in recovery.  Concentrations of adenosine triphosphate and phosphocreatine (PCr) in the diseased muscles were 30% below normal values, and the inorganic phosphate/PCr ratios were increased in the patients' muscles at rest and throughout exercise.  The T1 and T2 values as well as the P-31 metabolite data correlated with symptoms and clinical assessment.
The presence of autoantibody to recombinant lipocortin-I in patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.  Corticosteroids may mediate some of their anti-inflammatory effects via induction of a specific 38 kDa protein, lipocortin-I.  Anti-lipocortin-I antibodies (ALA) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 23 patients with plaque-type psoriasis alone (NAP), in 21 patients with psoriasis and arthritis (PA), and in 67 healthy controls.  Only two of 23 NAP patients had elevated ALA, whereas six of 21 PA patients had raised levels of ALA (P = 0.2).  Sero-negative polyarthritis was the most common pattern of joint disease in those PA patients with elevated ALA (4/6).  ALA levels did not correlate with the extent or severity of cutaneous involvement, and are unlikely to be involved in the pathogenesis of cutaneous psoriasis.
Biomechanics of a double prosthetic ligament in the anterior cruciate deficient knee.  We have assessed the biomechanical properties of a 'double-bundle' prosthetic ligament replacing the anterior cruciate in cadaver knees.  We compared the results with those of single bundle 'over-the-top' and 'through-the-condyle' techniques, performing anterior drawer tests at 20 degrees and 90 degrees knee flexion.  The over-the-top reconstruction gave better anteroposterior stability at 20 degrees, while the through-the-condyle repair was more stable at 90 degrees.  The double-bundle reconstruction gave practically normal anterior stability at both 20 degrees and 90 degrees.
Bipolar versus total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis of the femoral head. A comparison.  In a relatively small series of cases the results of bipolar prostheses in avascular necrosis were inferior to those of total hip arthroplasty (THA).  Femoral loosening rates were not reduced by using bipolar prostheses.  THA produced more inferior results in avascular necrosis than in degenerative joint disease.  Early results of noncemented THA for avascular necrosis were good but also must withstand the test of time.  A fixed noncemented acetabular component was preferable over a bipolar prosthesis for avascular necrosis of the femoral head.
The American College of Rheumatology criteria for the classification and reporting of osteoarthritis of the hand.  Clinical criteria for the classification of symptomatic idiopathic (primary) osteoarthritis (OA) of the hands were developed from data collected in a multicenter study.  Patients with OA were compared with a group of patients who had hand symptoms from other causes, such as rheumatoid arthritis and the spondylarthropathies.  Variables from the medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests, and radiographs were analyzed.  All patients had pain, aching, or stiffness in the hands.  Patients were classified as having clinical OA if on examination there was hard tissue enlargement involving at least 2 of 10 selected joints, swelling of fewer than 3 metacarpophalangeal joints, and hard tissue enlargement of at least 2 distal interphalangeal (DIP) joints.  If the patient had fewer than 2 enlarged DIP joints, then deformity of at least 1 of the 10 selected joints was necessary in order to classify the symptoms as being due to OA.  The 10 selected joints were the second and third DIP, the second and third proximal interphalangeal, and the trapeziometacarpal (base of the thumb) joints of both hands.  Criteria derived using the "classification tree" method were 92% sensitive and 98% specific.  The "traditional format" classification method required that at least 3 of these 4 criteria be present to classify a patient as having OA of the hand.  The latter sensitivity was 94% and the specificity was 87%.  Radiography was of less value than clinical examination in the classification of symptomatic OA of the hands.
Surgical treatment for severe slipping of the upper femoral epiphysis.  We have used a modified technique of cervical osteotomy to treat a consecutive series of 23 patients with chronic slip of the upper femoral epiphysis.  It has been successful in correcting both moderate and severe deformities with a low incidence of avascular necrosis, comparable to that seen after subtrochanteric osteotomies.  We describe the operative details and discuss the features which make cervical osteotomy technically superior to intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric procedures.
Extradural abscess following local anaesthetic and steroid injection for chronic low back pain.  A case is described of extradural abscess following extradural injection of local anaesthetic and steroid for the management of chronic low back pain.  The common signs and symptoms are reviewed, possible causes discussed and the association with diabetes stressed.
Temporary loss of limb function secondary to soft tissue calcification in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure.  A case of unusually severe soft tissue calcification with temporary loss of limb function in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure (ARF) is described.  A large dose of intravenous (IV) calcium was administered early in the hospital course to treat hypocalcemia, and hemodialysis, when initiated, was with a 1.75-mmol/L calcium dialysate.  This case illustrates the danger of administering calcium supplementation and raises questions about the use of normal to high dialysate calcium concentration in the early stages of rhabdomyolysis-induced oliguric ARF.  Calcium supplementation should be reserved for patients with clear clinical signs of hypocalcemia and dialysate calcium should be adjusted to prevent excessive positive calcium balance.
High levels of inflammatory phospholipase A2 activity in lumbar disc herniations.  Inflammation of neural elements is frequently mentioned clinically in association with lumbar radiculopathy.  Mechanical embarrassment of neural elements by definable structural abnormalities is inadequate as a sole explanation of nerve injury in this condition.  The purpose of this study was to demonstrate whether an enzymatic marker for inflammation (phospholipase A2) could be identified in human disc samples removed at surgery for radiculopathy due to lumbar disc disease.  Samples were assayed for phospholipase A2 activity.  The level of activity in the disc samples was compared with values obtained from other human tissues using the same assay.  Specific activity (percent hydrolysis radiolabelled substrate) ranged from 238 to 1,014.5 nmol/min/mg.  Mean activity for the human disc material was 568.7 nmol/min/mg, compared with 0.006 nmol/min/mg for human PMN, and 12.1 nmol/min/mg for inflammatory human synovial effusion.  The pH and cation-related activity were identical to those demonstrated for phospholipase A2 inflammatory conditions.  Human lumbar disc phospholipase A2 activity is from 20- to 100,000-fold more active than any other phospholipase A2 that has been described.  As the enzyme responsible for the liberation of arachidonic acid from cell membranes, phospholipase A2 is the rate-limiting step in the production of prostaglandins and leukotrienes.  These data establish biochemical evidence of inflammation at the site of lumbar disc herniations.
Healing of non-vascularised diaphyseal bone transplants. An experimental study.  Four different experiments were performed to study the healing of a large, non-vascularised, diaphyseal, bone segment in adult cats.  In the first experiment, a 4 cm segment of tibia with its periosteum was excised and replaced in its bed.  The other experiments were similar, except that in the second, the periosteum of the segment was removed, in the third its medullary canal was blocked with a Silastic rod, and in the last group the segment was isolated from its muscle bed by a Silastic sheet.  The reparative processes were quantified by estimating the resorption index, the cortical new bone formation index, the callus encasement index, and the osteocyte count.  Bone resorption and apposition occurred in the segment even when the periosteum was absent or the medullary canal was blocked, with osseous union at both ends by eight to 12 weeks, provided the segment was not isolated from its muscle bed.  Thus, the muscle bed played a significant role in these reparative processes.
Giant-cell reparative granuloma of the hand and foot bones.  Giant-cell reparative granuloma (GCRG) is an uncommon benign reactive intraosseous lesion.  It occurs in the skull, jaw, hand, foot, and facial bones and rarely in other skeletal sites.  It is a solitary, lytic, expanded lesion and infrequently may extend into the surrounding soft tissue.  Histologically, it is composed of fibrous stroma with spindle-shaped fibroblasts, multinucleated giant cells, and inflammatory mononuclear cells.  Areas of hemorrhage are uniformly present.  It may be difficult to distinguish this entity from an aneurysmal bone cyst, giant-cell tumor, or brown tumor of hyperparathyroidism because of roentgenographic and histologic similarities.  Accurate diagnosis is essential for appropriate treatment; serum calcium, phosphorus, and parathyroid hormone levels should be measured.  Curettage and bone graft are effective treatments for both primary lesions and recurrences.  Second recurrences are rare.
Synthesis and release of phospholipase A2 by unstimulated human articular chondrocytes.  High activity of proinflammatory, type II phospholipase A2 (PLA2) was found in synovial fluids (SF) in inflammatory arthritis.  In search for the sources of this PLA2, we cultured human articular chondrocytes and cartilage explants from healthy, osteoarthritic and rheumatoid joints.  All cultures, unstimulated by cytokines, released PLA2 extracellularly.  Cultures obtained from the deep layers of the cartilage released more PLA2 than those obtained from the superficial layers.  Deep layer explants released 0.38 to 18.16 pmol/min/mg protein PLA2/day, whereas superficial layer explants released 0.39-3.18 pmol/min/mg/day.  Chondrocyte cell cultures continuously released PLA2, in the first day 909-46347 pmol/min/(10)6 cells and after 9-26 days of culture 166-2115 pmol/min/10(6) cells.  PLA2 released from chondrocytes was calcium dependent and had optimum activity at pH 7.5.  Cycloheximide markedly inhibited its release.  Chondrocyte cultures also released muramidase (LZM) but there was no correlation between PLA2 and LZM release.  It may be concluded that cytokine unstimulated human articular chondrocytes synthesize and release PLA2 extracellularly which is similar to that found in the SF.  Thus, chondrocytes may possibly serve as one of the sources of intraarticular PLA2.
Intertrochanteric corrective osteotomy in slipped capital femoral epiphysis. A long-term follow-up study of 26 patients.  The results of intertrochanteric corrective osteotomy in a series of 26 hips with moderate to severe chronic slipped capital femoral epiphysis are reported from follow-up studies in 1976 and 1986.  In hips with a slippage of less than 40 degrees (ten hips), arthrosis was present in one hip.  In the remaining 16 cases in which slippage exceeded 40 degrees, osteoarthrosis was present in 15, even though correction was adequate.  From these observations it can be concluded that intertrochanteric corrective osteotomy does not prevent degeneration in cases with the most severe slip.  On the basis of the present observations on treated and untreated cases, the authors advocate treatment by fixation without realignment, accepting the deformity in moderate and severe chronic slips.  Rotational osteotomy may be considered in the event of hip joint contracture.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome   PURPOSE: The chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is characterized by profound fatigue, neuropsychiatric dysfunction, and frequent abnormalities in cell-mediated immunity.  No effective therapy is known.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-nine patients (40 with abnormal cell-mediated immunity) participated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to determine the effectiveness of high-dose intravenously administered immunoglobulin G.  The patients received three intravenous infusions of a placebo solution or immunoglobulin at a dose of 2 g/kg/month.  Assessment of the severity of symptoms and associated disability, both before and after treatment, was completed at detailed interviews by a physician and psychiatrist, who were unaware of the treatment status.  In addition, any change in physical symptoms and functional capacity was recorded using visual analogue scales, while changes in psychologic morbidity were assessed using patient-rated indices of depression.  Cell-mediated immunity was evaluated by T-cell subset analysis, delayed-type hypersensitivity skin testing, and lymphocyte transformation with phytohemagglutinin.  RESULTS: At the interview conducted by the physician 3 months after the final infusion, 10 of 23 (43%) immunoglobulin recipients and three of the 26 (12%) placebo recipients were assessed as having responded with a substantial reduction in their symptoms and recommencement of work, leisure, and social activities.  The patients designated as having responded had improvement in physical, psychologic, and immunologic measures (p less than 0.01 for each).  CONCLUSION: Immunomodulatory treatment with immunoglobulin is effective in a significant number of patients with CFS, a finding that supports the concept that an immunologic disturbance may be important in the pathogenesis of this disorder.
Measuring vibration sensations with graduated tuning fork. Simple and reliable means to detect diabetic patients at risk of neuropathic foot ulceration.  To find a simple and reliable means to measure vibration sensations, 189 diabetic patients and 88 control subjects were tested at different sites with a graduated tuning fork.  Within-test variation at big toes reached 8.4% in diabetic patients vs.  2.2% in control subjects.  Mean contralateral variation was 7.5% in diabetic patients vs.  2.5% in control subjects.  Tuning-fork sensations were inversely correlated with duration of diabetes, whereas no correlation was found with HBA1c levels or the severity of retinopathy.  Ninety-nine (52%) patients had vibratory sensation at big toes of less than 99th percentile of normal values for age.  In addition, 51% of the patients with clinical symptoms at extremities (n = 67), 70% of the patients without tendon reflexes (n = 50), and 75% of the patients with abnormal nerve conduction velocities (n = 60) also had low vibration sensations.  All patients with lower-limb injuries (n = 7) had values at big toes of less than 2.  Altogether, the graduated tuning fork represents a simple and reliable alternative to quantitate vibration sensations.  Long-term follow-up of asymptomatic patients will indicate whether these abnormalities reflect underlying neuropathy.  Patients with abnormal values at screening will necessitate additional investigations and special foot-care education programs.
Heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain.  Male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves, and the development of autonomy was monitored.  The deafferented animals were then interbred, always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and, alternatively, relatively low levels of autotomy.  Offspring were similarly operated and interbred.  By the sixth generation of selective breeding, lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high (HA) or consistently low (LA).  There was no indication of sex linkage.  Thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury: response thresholds were lower in HA than in LA rats.  F1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous HA and LA animals showed low levels of autotomy, similar to LA stock.  This indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait.  Backcrossing F1 hybrids onto the LA line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases; backcrossing F1 hybrids onto HA stock yielded about 50% high autotomy and 50% low autotomy.  These ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene.  Taken together, the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait.
Does alternate-day cloprednol therapy prevent bone loss? A longitudinal double-blind, controlled clinical study.  Osteoporosis is a serious side effect of systemic treatment with steroids.  Cloprednol, a synthetic glucocorticoid with an anti-inflammatory potency twice that of prednisone, causes less calcium and nitrogen excretion than does prednisone in equipotent doses.  Therefore a double-blind study was undertaken comparing the effects of alternate-day cloprednol and prednisone therapy on bone mineral density in 39 patients (cloprendol: 13 men and 8 women aged 48.5 +/- 2.8 years; prednisone: 9 men and 9 women aged 49.7 +/- 1.7 years) with lung diseases.  Ten patients with asthma (9 men and 1 woman aged 37.8 +/- 3.7 years) inhaling daily beclomethasone served as control subjects.  Trabecular and total bone density of the distal tibia and radius was determined quarterly during 1 year with a special-purpose computed tomographic system.  Initial mean trabecular bone density of the patients receiving cloprednol and prednisone was 17% below normal.  After a treatment period of 1 year, we found a loss of radial trabecular bone density (mean +/- SEM) of 1.33% +/- 0.49% in the cloprednol group and 2.38% +/- 0.69% in the prednisone group.  In postmenopausal women, prednisone but not cloprednol therapy caused significant (p less than 0.01) trabecular bone loss (5.29% +/- 0.99% versus 0.70% +/- 0.65%).  The control group lost 0.91% +/- 0.79%.  Loss of cortical bone was insignificant in all three groups.  In post-menopausal women, 1 year of alternate-day cloprednol therapy was associated with significantly less bone loss than was prednisone therapy in equipotent dosages.
Macrophage colony stimulating factor restores in vivo bone resorption in the op/op osteopetrotic mouse.  The op/op variant of murine osteopetrosis is a recessive mutation characterized by impaired bone resorption due to lack of osteoclasts.  Cultured osteoblasts and fibroblasts from this mutant do not secrete M-CSF activity and resident macrophages are absent in bone marrow.  This failure has been related to a mutation within the M-CSF coding region.  We report now that the administration of recombinant human M-CSF (rhM-CSF) corrects in vivo the impaired bone resorption in this animal.  The treatment restores the bone marrow cavity virtually absent in the op/op animal and induces the appearance of resorbing osteoclasts and of resident bone marrow macrophages.  This proves that the deficiency of M-CSF is the cause of the op/op bone disorder and that this cytokine is directly or indirectly necessary for physiological osteoclastogenesis, the resulting bone resorption and for the establishment of bone marrow hemopoiesis.
Rotator cuff lesions: signal patterns at MR imaging.  The signal intensity patterns of rotator cuff lesions at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging were evaluated in 80 patients who had surgical correlation and in 13 asymptomatic individuals (14 shoulders).  Six cadaver shoulders were examined with MR, and histologic correlation was obtained in four.  All studies were performed at 1.5 T with a flexible circular surface coil.  The accuracy of MR imaging in detection of full-thickness cuff tears (31 patients) was 0.95 and of partial thickness tears (16 patients), 0.84.  The most common and accurate pattern for full-thickness cuff tears (22 of 31 tears) was a region of intense signal seen on T2-weighted images.  Less often the torn region consisted of an extremely degenerated and attenuated tendon with moderate signal intensity or was obscured by low-signal-intensity scar.  The intense signal pattern on T2-weighted images was also accurate, although a less common finding (seven of 16 cases), in the diagnosis of partial tears.  Tendinitis was recognized as focal or diffuse regions of increased signal intensity or a nonhomogeneous pattern of increased signal often associated with tendinous enlargement.  In some patients, manifestations of subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis was present.  Tendon degeneration was also manifested as regions of increased signal intensity.  Some similarity and overlap of signal patterns of partial interstitial tears, tendinitis, and tendon degeneration are observed.
Epiretinal membrane contracture associated with macular prolapse.  We treated two patients with annular epiretinal membranes that produced unusual macular morphologic characteristics.  Contracture of the membranes caused herniation of macular tissue through a hole in the center of the membrane.  The membranes were removed surgically, and ultrastructural analysis disclosed cells with properties resembling myofibroblasts and apparent new vitreous collagen.  Contracture of the cellular components probably produced tangential traction on the retina, which caused prolapse of the retinal tissue through a central defect in the membrane.
Thyroid abnormalities in the McCune-Albright syndrome: ultrasonography and hormonal studies.  Hyperthyroidism and goiter have been reported frequently in association with the McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS).  To assess the prevalence and extent of thyroid abnormalities in girls with MAS, we studied 19 patients [mean age, 6.6 +/- 1 (+/- SE) yr; mean bone age, 9.5 +/- 1 yr] and 18 normal control girls (mean age, 10.3 +/- 0.5 yr).  All patients appeared euthyroid when examined; 1 was taking antithyroid medication.  Ultrasonography revealed thyroid abnormalities in 7 patients, including generalized inhomogeneity, small (2-4 mm) and large (greater than 10 mm) hypoechoic regions, and echogenic nodule-like regions.  Repeat ultrasonography after intervals of 9-18 months showed enlargement of large hypoechoic regions in 2 patients.  In the patients with abnormal ultrasound findings, serum TSH was uniformly low or suppressed both at baseline and after administration of 7 micrograms/kg TRH.  The mean serum T3 level in this group was significantly higher than that in controls (2.9 +/- 0.2 vs.  2.3 +/- 0.1 nmol/L; P less than 0.05), whereas mean serum T4, free T4, and T4-binding globulin levels did not differ from those of controls.  In the remaining 11 patients, thyroid ultrasonography was normal, and the serum levels of T3, T4, free T4, and TSH were normal.  Bioassay showed no detectable thyroid-stimulating activity in the plasma of the MAS patients with suppressed TSH levels.  None of the patients became overtly thyrotoxic over 3-6 yr of observation, and their serum iodothyronine levels remained stable.  We conclude that thyroid dysfunction is common in girls with MAS, but that it may be clinically occult and not rapidly progressive.  The thyroid dysfunction, like that of the ovaries, is associated with structural abnormalities in the gland itself, together with suppressed levels of the respective stimulating hormones.
The restorative and surgical technique for the full maxillary subperiosteal implant.  The edentulous atrophic maxilla represents one of the most challenging implant restorative opportunities.  When prescribed within the appropriate diagnostic range and performed by a highly skilled and experienced practitioner, the full maxillary subperiosteal implant is a predictable solution for the patient with an edentulous atrophic maxilla.
Mandibular osteomyelitis in a patient with sickle cell anemia: report of case.  A case is presented in which mandibular osteomyelitis and mental nerve paresthesia developed in a patient with sickle cell anemia.  This infection appeared to precipitate a sickle cell crisis.  The mechanisms for these patients' propensity to infection and the diagnosis and management of sickle cell osteomyelitis of the jaws are discussed.
Operative and conservative treatment of moderate spondylolisthesis in young patients.  We made a retrospective study of 149 children and adolescents with moderate spondylolisthesis (slip less than or equal to 30%), 77 treated by fusion and 72 conservatively at an average follow-up of 13.3 years.  Both groups were fully comparable with regard to age at diagnosis, sex distribution (46% girls), and mean slip.  The patients who were treated operatively had more pain before treatment and showed more initial progression of the slip.  They had better clinical results and less pain at latest review, but the total progression of the slip over the whole follow-up showed no statistical differences between the two groups.  Patients with a pseudarthrosis after attempted fusion had had a longer period of postoperative pain, but at the latest review had no more pain than those with sound fusion.  None of those treated conservatively came to fusion later and the long-term results in 18 patients who had refused the advised operation were no worse than those for other conservatively treated patients.  Our results suggest that a moderate grade of spondylolisthesis in adolescents usually has a benign course.  It seems that spontaneous segmental stabilisation occurs as a result of degeneration of the disc at the level of the slip.
Reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament using allogeneic tendon. Long-term followup.  Eighty-four patients who underwent ACL reconstruction with fresh-frozen allogeneic tendon were reviewed and evaluated with subjective and functional rating scales, physical examinations, instrumented anterior drawer tests, isokinetic testing, and arthroscopy.  The average followup was 57 months (range, 36 to 90 months) and the average age at operation was 22 years (range, 16 to 37 years).  The subjective and functional results were rated as excellent in 48 patients (57%), good in 31 (37%), and fair in 2 (2%).  Three patients (3%) experienced a retear of the ACL.  Physical examinations and instrumented anterior drawer tests showed that satisfactory anterior stability was restored in 88% of the patients.  Isokinetic evaluations demonstrated that the extension torque of the involved knee recovered to a slightly lower level than that of the controls, although the flexion torque recovered to a level equivalent to that of the controls.  Arthroscopic evaluations revealed that the allografts were elaborately remodeled, viable, and taut.  There was no sign of immunologic rejection at any time postoperatively.  Additional extraarticular procedures, consisting of both pes anserinus transfer on the medial side and iliotibial band reinforcement on the lateral side, had no effect on the results.
Tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome   Eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia, fatigue, rash, fever, edema, alopecia, arthralgias, diminished joint motion, skin tightening, muscle cramping, and distal paresthesias.  Three had shortness of breath, and one had pulmonary hypertension.  Laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia, leukocytosis, thrombocytosis, raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and elevated serum levels of aldolase, lactate dehydrogenase, and liver enzymes.  Of 4 chest radiographs, 3 were abnormal.  Of 5 skin and muscle biopsies, 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis, subcutis, and fascia.  Eosinophils were often present, but vasculitis was absent.  Muscle inflammation was minimal.  We conclude that the "eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome" is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis.
Two- to four-year results of posterior cruciate-sparing condylar total knee arthroplasty with an uncemented femoral component.  One hundred fourteen hybrid Press-Fit Condylar total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) were reviewed an average of 2.8 years after surgery to determine if this method of implantation provided satisfactory results compared with conventional cemented TKAs.  Ninety-three percent of the knees had good or excellent results, and 94% of the knees had at most only mild or occasional pain.  One knee with a metal-backed patella was revised for mechanical failure of the patellar button.  Roentgenographic analysis of the femoral component interface showed that 30% of knees had a radiolucent line in at least one zone.  However, none of the lines was wider than 1 mm, and none was about the central stem.  There were no signs of loosening about any of the components.  It was concluded that hybrid TKA provides a good and predictable result that is comparable to cemented TKA.
Restricted dose and duration of corticosteroid treatment in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis.  To analyze whether corticosteroids in low doses during limited time periods could be safely used in the treatment of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) or temporal arteritis (TA) the records of 91 patients diagnosed between 1980 and 1987 were reviewed.  The mean initial prednisolone dose was in patients with PMR 18 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment was 17 months.  In patients with TA the mean initial dose was 31 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment 16 months, and in all the corticosteroid treatment was terminated within 24 months.  Patients with coexisting TA and PMR demanded longer treatment compared to patients with either TA or PMR and thus 18/91 patients were treated for more than 2 years.  No visual or neurological complications occurred after treatment with corticosteroids had been initiated.  Our study indicates that most patients with PMR or TA can be treated safely with an initial prednisolone dose of 10 mg given twice daily.  With few exceptions corticosteroid treatment can be terminated within 24 months.
Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis with high doses of synthetic calcitriol. A randomized controlled study   OBJECTIVE: To study the efficacy of synthetic 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 (calcitriol) in the treatment of osteoporosis.  DESIGN: Two-year, double-blind, randomized clinical trial.  SETTING: University medical center.  PATIENTS: Fifty postmenopausal women with vertebral fractures recruited by referral.  INTERVENTION: Calcium intake was adjusted to 25 mmol/d (1000 mg/d) at baseline.  Patients were then randomized to treatment with either calcitriol or placebo.  During the study, calcium intake was reduced to 15 mmol/d (600 mg/d) and the dose of calcitriol was adjusted to maintain serum calcium less than 2.74 mmol/L (less than 11.0 mg/dL) or urine calcium less than 9.96 mmol/d (less than 400 mg/d).  MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: After 2 years, the mean dose of calcitriol in the treated group was 0.62 micrograms/d.  Bone mineral density of the spine increased 1.94% with calcitriol therapy and decreased 3.92% with placebo (P = 0.001).  Total body calcium increased 0.21% with calcitriol therapy and decreased 1.85% with placebo (P = 0.004).  Patients receiving placebo had significant decreases in spine density (P = 0.0007) and total body calcium (P = 0.0004).  There were no differences in vertebral fracture rates between the groups.  Renal function studies were not statistically different between the groups after 2 years.  CONCLUSION: The treatment of postmenopausal osteoporotic women with synthetic calcitriol for 2 years was associated with increases in spine density and total body calcium.  No adverse effects on renal function were seen after long-term calcitriol therapy.
Musculoskeletal impairments and physical disablement among the aged.  This article summarizes the results of a longitudinal investigation of the progression of sight, hearing, and musculoskeletal impairments and their association with change in physical disability, in 10 ADLs among members of the Massachusetts Health Care Panel Study.  The findings confirm widely held clinical beliefs that specific types of musculoskeletal decrement are an important cause of physical disability among older persons.  Decrement in hand function is a significant musculoskeletal impairment influencing limitations in Basic ADL, and progression of Instrumental ADL dysfunction is influenced by progression of lower extremity impairments.  Progression of sight and hearing impairments was not associated with change in physical disability.  Musculoskeletal impairments, one of the most prevalent and symptomatic chronic complaints of middle and old age, deserve increased attention from epidemiologists, disability researchers, and clinicians seeking ways to prevent disablement among the aged.
Maffucci's syndrome with bilateral cartilaginous tumors of the cerebellopontine angle.  Maffucci's syndrome is characterized by the combination of multiple enchondromas (Ollier's disease) and hemangiomatosis.  These hemangiomas develop in the subcutaneous tissue and form red-blue tumors dispersed over the whole body.  Intracranial involvement is rare, making a preoperative radiological diagnosis and differentiation from other tumors rather difficult.  The radiological characteristics and successful removal of the intracranial part of a chondrosarcoma of the cerebellopontine angle in a case of Maffucci's syndrome are reported in this paper.
Humeral head retroversion in patients with unstable humeroscapular joints.  Humeral head retroversion and shoulder rotation in both the frontal and scapular plane were studied in 34 patients with anterior glenohumeral instability.  Twenty-two patients had traumatic anterior shoulder dislocations and another 12 patients had nontraumatic dislocations with generalized joint laxity.  Patients with traumatic recurrent dislocations had a smaller than normal retroversion angle in the unstable shoulder.  The angles were 26 degrees on the dominant side and 23 degrees on the nondominant side compared with 33 degrees and 29 degrees, respectively, in normal shoulders.  The stable contralateral shoulder joint was clinically and roentgenographically similar to the normal shoulder.  The patients with nontraumatic dislocations had increased rotation and smaller retroversion angles, irrespective of stability in the shoulder joint.  The retroversion angles were 18 degrees for unstable shoulders on the dominant side and 15 degrees on the nondominant side.  The retroversion angle of the stable contralateral joint in these patients was less in five of eight shoulders.
Tuberculous psoas muscle abscess following chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection.  A 34-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and disseminated Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium intracellulare infection developed a right psoas muscle abscess due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis.  The abscess occurred 18 months after completion of a 12-month course of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid that was given because of a positive reaction with purified protein derivative of tuberculin.  The adjacent vertebrae did not appear to be involved.  The abscess was drained with a percutaneously inserted catheter, and he received standard antituberculous chemotherapy.  Three weeks into therapy, a second drainage with a catheter was required.  The isolation of two mycobacteria in this patient and the apparent failure of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid are noted.
Radiographic appearances in lumbar disc prolapse.  The pre-operative lumbar spine radiographs of 200 consecutive patients who had undergone discectomy for prolapsed intervertebral disc were reviewed.  Prolapse was recognized as bulging or sequestration of the disc with consequent root compromise.  Measurement of the lumbar level of the interiliac line was shown to correlate with the level of disc prolapse and the incidence of transitional vertebrae at the lumbosacral junction was significantly higher than normal.  A pathological value for the lumbosacral angle could not be identified.
Diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity   Diclofenac sodium, a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) recently released in the United States, was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients, with one associated death.  Signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug.  The only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities.  In one patient, fatal, fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug.  Review of the European literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy.  It is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.  Careful patient monitoring is advised, and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop.
Outcome after acute osteomyelitis in preterm infants.  Eight cases of skeletal infection in preterm infants were studied.  All the infants were systemically unwell, with polymorpholeucocytosis.  Diagnosis was by blood culture, and any radiographic changes were apparent at the time of presentation.  Infection was often multifocal, with sites around the knee being most commonly affected.  Staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen isolated in six of the eight cases; in these treatment with fusidic acid was effective and well tolerated, even at doses that were less than the recommended therapeutic minimum.  Even with prompt diagnosis and aggressive treatment orthopaedic sequelae are common.
Pivoting larynx--an unusual clinical observation at laryngoscopy.  Rigid oesophagoscopy was planned in the investigation of a young patient with dysphagia.  During laryngoscopy for tracheal intubation an unusual pivoting manoeuvre was required to see the vocal cords.  Although the initial diagnostic investigations were unhelpful, follow up directed at explaining the clinical observations led to an eventual diagnosis of anterior tubercles of C6, which explained the observation and accounted for the dysphagia.
Characterization of a newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain: IOMM-Lee.  A permanent malignant meningioma (MM) cell line of the human brain designated "IOMM-Lee" is reported.  This cell line was successfully established from the tumor of a 61-year-old Chinese man with repeated recurrent primary intraosseous malignant meningioma of the skull.  It has been subcultured for more than 60 passages during the past 30 months.  The doubling time of cultured cells is approximately 62 hours.  Tumorigenicity in athymic nude mice (Balb/c-nu/nu) who develop multiple pulmonary metastases was observed; the doubling time of tumor volume in vivo is approximately 5 days.  Karyotypic analysis revealed this cell line to be of human origin and near-diploid, with a modal chromosome number of 49.  The mesenchymal tumor marker vimentin and intracytoplasmic microfilaments were identified in the cytoplasm of tumor cells by indirect immunohistochemical peroxidase-anti-peroxidase assays and immunogold ultrastructural localization by transmission electron microscopy, respectively.  Scanning electron microscopy of cultured cells and xenografted tumors revealed ellipsoidal or carrot-shaped tumor cells presenting a wrinkled surface with short sparse microvilli.  Potential proliferating activity was determined by Ki-67 monoclonal antibody; the Ki-67 labeling index of cultured cells and xenografted tumors was approximately 36% and 30%, respectively.  This newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain may prove useful as a research model.
Hazards of internal fixation in the treatment of slipped capital femoral epiphysis.  We reviewed the records of 202 patients (308 hips) in whom a slipped capital femoral epiphysis had been fixed with pins or screws.  A serious complication that was directly related to the use of internal fixation developed in eighty hips (26 per cent).  The rate of complications in the 202 patients was 40 per cent.  In thirty-six (18 per cent) of the 202 patients, an additional procedure was done to correct a pin-related complication.  Forty-one hip joints had been penetrated by a pin.  Other complications included avascular necrosis (fourteen hips), chondrolysis (nine), fracture (one), infection (one), further slippage (one), sciatic-nerve injury (one), and breakage of a screw (eight).  Ways of decreasing the incidence of complications of fixation were explored.
The relationship between bone morphogenetic protein and neoplastic bone diseases.  The monoclonal antibody against bovine bone morphogenetic protein was used for demonstration of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) in neoplastic bone diseases.  The avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method demonstrated that BMP mainly exists in the cytoplasm of tumor cells of osteosarcoma and chondrosarcoma.  Immunostaining showed that a majority of osteosarcomas and all of the chondrosarcoma cells contained a large quantity of BMP.  Conversely, none of the fibrosarcomas showed positive staining.  Thus, it was possible to differentiate osteosarcomas from fibrosarcomas by immunostaining.  In fibrous dysplasia of bone, BMP was abundant in the fibrocellular tissue that had osteogenic activity.  In contrast, fibrous tissue of ossifying fibroma showed weak positive staining; only the osteoblasts rimming the bone showed a positive reaction.  Immunostaining showed that BMP was also detected in other neoplastic bone diseases such as osteoma, chondroma, and other tumors.
The influence of growth hormone on the reversibility of articular cartilage degeneration in rabbits.  Growth hormone has chondrogenic affects on normal as well as on damaged articular cartilage.  In this study, the influence of growth hormone is investigated on early degenerative changes in the articular cartilage in 72 New Zealand white rabbits.  Cartilage lesions were created in femoral condyles using an immobilization model.  Cartilage damage was assessed using biochemical, histologic, and biomechanical criteria.  Growth hormone had no influence on prevention of immobilization abnormalities but had a significant affect on healing of established lesions.
Rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with cocaine abuse.  Cocaine abuse has emerged as a major public health problem among young adults.  Illicit use of cocaine has been associated with an increasing array of medical complications.  Both traumatic and nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis, often complicated by acute renal failure, has recently been described following cocaine abuse.  The present report describes our experience with 15 such patients and serves to further define the spectrum of muscle injury associated with cocaine abuse ranging from the incidental finding of elevated serum levels of muscle enzymes to acute renal failure.  Those patients who developed renal failure experienced more severe rhabdomyolysis in association with trauma, seizures or hyperpyrexia.
Incidence of cervical spinal stenosis in professional and rookie football players.  Sagittal canal/vertebral body ratios were measured on cervical spine lateral radiographs of 124 professional football players and 100 rookie football players.  A total of 894 levels were measured in 224 players.  Thirty-two percent (40) of the 124 professional football players, and 34% of the 100 rookies had a ratio of less than 0.80 at one or more levels from C3 to C6.  The 0.80 ratio has been considered indicative of cervical spinal stenosis.  This is the first time that the incidence of spinal stenosis, as determined by Torg's ratio, has been demonstrated in a population of professional and rookie football players.  Because one-third of this population has cervical spinal stenosis as determined by the Torg ratio, other factors should be considered in the evaluation of a player with a transient quadriplegic episode when making continued play decisions.
Predicting the severity of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis.  STUDY OBJECTIVES: The syndrome of rhabdomyolysis associated with cocaine use has been recently described, but the incidence, severity, risk factors, and complications are unknown.  This study sought to describe the spectrum of the syndrome and identify clinical features of patients at risk.  DESIGN: Retrospective case series with analysis of common clinical features.  SETTING: Medical emergency department of an urban teaching hospital serving an indigent population.  TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS: ED patients with acute cocaine intoxication and a serum creatine kinase (all MM) of more than 500 U/L (8.3 ukat/L) who were admitted for in-hospital management.  MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients, representing 5% of cocaine-related patient visits, were identified over 20 months.  Patients were divided into three groups: mild, characterized by anxiety, tachycardia, diaphoresis, dyspnea, or chest pain; moderate, characterized by delirium, agitation, fever, leukocytosis, or an elevated serum creatinine; and severe, characterized by seizure, coma, hypotension, arrhythmia, or cardiac arrest.  There was a significant association between the rating system for level of intoxication and the severity of rhabdomyolysis and its complications (P less than .01).  Patients at highest risk for complications of rhabdomyolysis were those in the moderate or severe groups.  CONCLUSION: This classification system may be useful for the management of patients with acute cocaine intoxication, predicting those patients in whom aggressive therapy should be initiated in the ED to minimize the complications of rhabdomyolysis.
Open transpedicular biopsy of the vertebral body.  We describe a method of obtaining a biopsy from the body of a vertebra by an open transpedicular route.  This minimises the danger of contamination of tissue planes and spaces.
Arachnoid granulation cerebrospinal fluid otorrhea.  A case report and review of the temporal bone (TB) collection in the Department of Otolaryngology at SUNY Health Science Center in Syracuse demonstrated the occurrence of arachnoid granulations (AGs) in the posterior fossa surface of the TB and their role in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) otorrhea.  A large AG responsible for CSF otorrhea in a 64-year-old man was excised with soft tissue repair of the dural defect.  Sixteen of 188 TBs (8.5%) in the collection contained 24 AGs ranging in size from 0.07 to 80.65 mm3.  Nine AGs (37%) were small (less than 1 mm3) and did not demonstrate enlargement.  Twelve (50%) were of intermediate size (2.50 to 9.32 mm3), and three (13%) were large (49.82 to 80.65 mm3).  The intermediate and large AGs were associated with bone erosion and a high incidence of communication with a pneumatized mastoid complex (serous otitis media or meningitis).  These findings suggest that AGs of sufficient size to produce bone erosion are the primary responsible lesions in adult-onset spontaneous CSF otorrhea.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated myopathy: immunocytochemical identification of an HIV antigen (gp 41) in muscle macrophages.  In a patient with acquired immunodeficiency disease syndrome (AIDS) and muscle weakness, a muscle biopsy specimen disclosed degeneration of muscle fibers, regeneration, and focal endomysial mononuclear inflammation.  A conspicuous feature was the presence of perivascular macrophages within the endomysium that showed positive immunostaining for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (gp 41) antigen.  HIV was not detected within myofibers.  Our findings suggest an important role for the HIV-infected macrophage in the pathogenesis of this myopathy.
Neonatal osteomyelitis.  Thirty-four neonates with osteomyelitis were reviewed.  The hip (19) was the most common site involved.  Swelling and pseudoparalysis were the most significant local signs.  Radiographic abnormalities, such as metaphyseal rarefaction and/or joint subluxation were found on the initial radiographs in 18 of the 19 hips involved.  All patients were treated with antibiotics and all infections involving joints were drained surgically.  Good results were achieved in 75% of all sites and in 68% of hips.
Capacitive coupling as an adjunctive treatment for avascular necrosis.  The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of capacitive coupling, a noninvasive method for applying electrical stimulation to biologic tissues, when used as an adjunct to decompression and grafting in the treatment of avascular necrosis (AVN) of the femoral head.  It also compared the results of core decompression and grafting with nonoperative management.  Forty patients with Stages I-III AVN of the femoral head were treated with core decompression and grafting.  All wore capacitive coupling units with electrodes placed over the femoral head continuously for six months.  One-half of these units were active and one-half were inactive.  Patients were followed for two to four years.  Results were determined by preoperative and postoperative Harris ratings, quantitative roentgenographic measurements, and the number of hips that required total hip arthroplasty (THA).  After all evaluations were completed, patients were divided into stimulated and nonstimulated groups.  Patients in both groups were similar regarding gender, etiology, and roentgenographic stage of involvement.  Results were also compared to 55 hips previously treated symptomatically, without surgery or electrical stimulation.  There were no fractures, infections, or other significant complications in any of the hips operated on.  Hips treated with decompression and grafting, both with and without electrical stimulation, were more satisfactory than hips treated symptomatically in regard to roentgenographic progression and the need for THA.  There was, however, no indication that the addition of capacitive coupling gave better results than decompression and grafting alone.
The lateral approach for operative release of post-traumatic contracture of the elbow.  A lateral approach was used to release a post-traumatic contracture of the elbow in seven patients, and the results were evaluated an average of thirty-eight months postoperatively.  Extension improved from an average flexion contracture of 45 degrees preoperatively to one of 12 degrees postoperatively, and the average point of maximum flexion increased from 116 degrees preoperatively to 129 degrees postoperatively.  The average arc of motion increased 46 degrees.  All patients began using a continuous-passive-motion device immediately after the operation.  There were no problems with wound-healing or formation of heterotopic bone.
Magnetic and electrical stimulation of cervical motor roots: technique, site and mechanisms of excitation.  Cervical motor roots and the brachial plexus were excited transcutaneously with magnetic (MagStim) and electrical stimulation (ElStim) applied dorsally over the spine and over the supraclavicular fossa (Erb's point).  The compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) from the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and the biceps muscles (BICEPS) could be evoked with either stimulating technique in all 52 subjects tested.  With MagStim over the spinous process C7, greater CMAPs were obtained from ADM (p less than or equal to 0.0001, paired t test) and BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.005) when the inducing current in the coil as viewed from behind was clockwise for the right arm and vice versa.  ElStim with the cathode over C7/T1 and the anode directed cranially provided greater CMAPs from the ADM (p less than or equal to 0.0001) and smaller CMAPs from the BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.01) than with the inverse polarity.  MagStim of the cervical roots provided CMAPs which were smaller from ADM (p less than or equal to 0.0001), and greater from BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.0001), than ElStim (cathode C7/T1), whereas latencies did not differ significantly (p less than or equal to 0.3).  When comparing ElStim and MagStim applied over Erb's point, the former yielded greater CMAPs and 0.5 ms longer latencies from both the ADM and BICEPS (p less than or equal to 0.001).  From these data and additional studies in four patients, including direct intraoperative root stimulation in one of them, it is concluded that ElStim and MagStim over the spine excite the motor roots at a similar site, that is, within a few cm outside the intervertebral foramina.
Arthrodesis of the ankle with cancellous-bone screws and fibular strut graft. Biomechanical analysis.  The stability of an arthrodesis with two cancellous-bone screws across the ankle joint was evaluated in eighteen ankles from fresh-frozen cadavera.  Tibiotalar motion was recorded in response to the following loading modes: medial-lateral moment, plantar flexion-dorsiflexion moment, and internal-external tibial torque.  The series of loading tests was performed with two cancellous-bone screws through the tibia into the talus and a lateral fibular strut graft fixed with a proximal and a distal screw.  The tests were repeated after the strut graft was removed, and again after it had been reapplied.  The amount of motion at the site of the arthrodesis was greatest with tibial torque and was least with medial-lateral bending; this was true for specimens with or without a fibular strut graft.  Removal of the strut graft allowed increased tibiotalar motion for all modes of loading; increases in motion were far greater for specimens of poor bone quality.
Development of the hip in multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. Natural history and susceptibility to premature osteoarthritis.  We have determined the natural history of hip development in 42 patients with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED).  Premature osteoarthritis was a frequent outcome and was almost inevitable before the age of 30 years in those with incongruent hips.  There were two types of immature hips: type I, the more severe form, had a fragmented and flattened ossific nucleus and acetabular dysplasia, was misshapen at skeletal maturity and osteoarthritic by 30 years of age; the milder type II hip had a small, rounded, uniformly ossified nucleus and a more normal acetabulum.  Type II hips were well formed at maturity and were less prone to premature osteoarthritis.  Considerable variations were noted in the manifestations of MED between families but not within families.  The prognosis of a child's hip could be predicted; in sporadic cases from the type of immature hip, and in familial cases by also taking into account the outcome of affected relatives.
Pediatric spondyloarthropathies.  Seronegative spondyloarthropathies in childhood are often misdiagnosed as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, but recognition of their distinct clinical manifestations and unique underlying pathophysiologies can aid in making a proper diagnosis.  Ankylosing spondylitis, Reiter's syndrome, psoriatic arthritis, and the arthritis associated with inflammatory bowel disease are arthritides most often found in young adults, but they may also be present in children.  Extraarticular manifestations include inflammation of the eyes, skin, gastrointestinal tract, and genitourinary tract associated with inflammation of the entheses.  The proper diagnosis will allow for treatment regimens that differ from those usually used for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.  Early diagnosis and treatment often lead to an early recovery and a return to normal daily activities.
Tissue changes around loose prostheses. A canine model to investigate the effects of an antiinflammatory agent.  The aseptically loosened prosthesis provided a means for investigating the in vivo and in vitro activity of the cells associated with the loosening process in seven dogs.  The cells were isolated and maintained in culture for sufficient periods of time so that their biologic activity could be studied as well as the effect of different agents added to the cells in vivo or in vitro.  The biologic response as determined by interleukin-1 and prostaglandin E2 activity paralleled the roentgenographic appearance of loosening and the technetium images and observations made at the time of revision surgery.  The correlation between clinical, roentgenographic, histologic, and biochemical loosening indicates that the canine model is suitable for investigating the mechanisms of prosthetic failure.  A canine model permits the study of possible nonsurgical therapeutic interventions with the ultimate hope of stopping or slowing the loosening process.
Gallium nitrate for advanced Paget disease of bone: effectiveness and dose-response analysis.  OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether a brief course of treatment with gallium nitrate can reduce biochemical parameters of accelerated bone turnover in patients with advanced Paget disease.  DESIGN: Unblinded trial, decreasing dose schedules of gallium nitrate.  SETTING: University hospital with primary orthopedic and metabolic bone disease specialty.  PATIENTS: Ten patients with advanced Paget disease who had previously received conventional therapy consisting of calcitonin, etidronate, or mithramycin.  INTERVENTIONS: Five patients were entered into each of three dose schedules: 2.5 mg/kg body weight per day by continuous intravenous infusion for 7 days; 0.5 mg/kg per day for 14 days by subcutaneous injection; and 0.25 mg/kg per day for 14 days by subcutaneous injection.  Several patients were treated with different dose schedules.  Patients were followed until relapse.  RESULTS: Fifteen courses of treatment were administered to ten patients.  Reductions in serum alkaline phosphatase and urinary hydroxyproline excretion were observed after treatment with each dose schedule.  After treatment with high, intermediate, and low doses, the median maximum decreases in serum alkaline phosphatase activity were 49%, 39%, and 18%, respectively.  The median maximum decreases in urinary hydroxyproline excretion were 50%, 52%, and 16%, respectively.  The maximum decrease in urinary hydroxyproline excretion occurred within a median of 2 weeks from the start of treatment, whereas the maximum decrease in serum alkaline phosphatase activity occurred substantially later at a median of 6 weeks.  All treatment schedules were well tolerated.  Response duration was highly variable (range, 6 to 42 weeks).  CONCLUSIONS: Short-term treatment with gallium nitrate can reduce biochemical parameters of disease activity in patients with advanced Paget disease of bone.  Larger trials using low-dose intermittent treatment schedules are required to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of this therapy.
Sternoclavicular septic arthritis due to haemophilus influenzae.  We have reported a case of septic sternoclavicular arthritis illustrating a rare complication of infection with a relatively common pathogen, Haemophilus influenze.  Early identification of the infecting organism and appropriate antibiotic therapy are essential to prevent further morbidity from the complications of this unusual pyoarthritis.
Newer concepts in antimicrobial therapy.  Advances in the treatment of infection have continued to increase both the length and quality of life.  Unfortunately, many bacteria can readily adapt to their environment and develop a tolerance to the antimicrobial agents in widespread use.  During the recent past, the consumption of cephalosporins has increased so dramatically as to parallel the initial acceptance of penicillin.  Organisms that are resistant to the cephalosporins will no doubt continue to thrive, especially within the susceptible host.  It is essential for the clinician to become familiar with the newest antimicrobial agents to more effectively treat modern infections.
Congenital myopathy and cardiomyopathy with identical ultrastructural changes.  A 7-day-old girl with congenital hypotonia and unexplained episodes of bradycardia had a broad spectrum of similar skeletal muscle and myocardial degenerative ultrastructural abnormalities.  Ultrastructural studies showed obliteration of cross striations, myofilament disorganization, streaming, smearing, clumping, and zigzag Z-band deformities.  A decrease in glycogen, mitochondria, and T-tubular system occurred in the regions showing Z-band abnormalities of both skeletal muscle and myocardium.  Concurrent structural cardiomyopathy should be considered in patients with congenital myopathies, particularly with unexplained cardiac conduction abnormalities or contractile insufficiency.  Ultrastructural evaluation of skeletal and cardiac muscle may be necessary to define such disorders.
IgG and IgA antibodies to the collagen-like region of C1q in rheumatoid vasculitis.  We investigated the presence of IgG and IgA antibodies to C1q in serum samples from 80 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 31 patients with rheumatoid vasculitis, and 80 healthy controls.  IgG and IgA antibodies to C1q, as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, were found in less than 5% of the sera from RA patients and from healthy controls.  In contrast, IgG and IgA antibodies to C1q were found in 29% and 61%, respectively, of the sera from patients with rheumatoid vasculitis.  The occurrence of IgA antibodies to C1q has not been previously demonstrated.  These results also demonstrate that IgG antibodies to C1q do not occur exclusively in systemic lupus erythematosus patients: Sera of patients with rheumatoid vasculitis frequently contain IgG or IgA antibodies to C1q, which contribute to immune complex formation.
Phenotypic heterogeneity in osteogenesis imperfecta: the mildly affected mother of a proband with a lethal variant has the same mutation substituting cysteine for alpha 1-glycine 904 in a type I procollagen gene (COL1A1).  A proband with a lethal variant of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) has been shown to have, in one allele in a gene for type I procollagen (COL1A1), a single base mutation that converted the codon for alpha 1-glycine 904 to a codon for cysteine.  The mutation caused the synthesis of type I procollagen that was posttranslationally overmodified, secreted at a decreased rate, and had a decreased thermal stability.  The results here demonstrate that the proband's mother had the same single base mutation as the proband.  The mother had no fractures and no signs of OI except for short stature, slightly blue sclerae, and mild frontal bossing.  As a child, however, she had the triangular facies frequently seen in many patients with OI.  On repeated subculturing, the proband's fibroblasts grew more slowly than the mother's, but they continued to synthesize large amounts of the mutated procollagen in passages 7-14.  In contrast, the mother's fibroblasts synthesized decreasing amounts of the mutated procollagen after passage 11.  Also, the relative amount of the mutated allele in the mother's fibroblasts decreased with passage number.  In addition, the ratio of the mutated allele to the normal allele in leukocyte DNA from the mother was half the value in fibroblast DNA from the proband.  The simplest interpretation of the data is that the mother was mildly affected because she was a mosaic for the mutation that produced a lethal phenotype in one of her three children.
A clinical epidemiological study in low back pain. Description of two clinical syndromes.  In 100 patients with mainly chronic low back pain (LBP) signs and symptoms were evaluated prospectively and without preconceived expectation of particular findings.  Two clinical syndromes were distinguished, both characterized by 'typical local tenderness' and associated with specific clinical features; these syndromes, described previously in the literature but receiving scant attention, were named the greater trochanteric pain syndrome (trochanteric bursitis) and the iliac crest pain syndrome (iliolumbar syndrome), and occurred in 35% and 43% of the patients, respectively.  The recognition of these syndromes may enable us to study aetiology, prognosis, and therapy of LBP in more homogeneous groups of patients.
Erythromycin failure with subsequent Pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim.  We report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed Pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin.  Review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures.  We recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections.  Suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed.
Mechanism of the pivot shift.  The mechanism of the pivot shift was investigated by analysing movements under valgus torque in 29 fresh cadaveric knees.  The movements were measured in three dimensions, using biplanar photography, when all the ligaments were intact, and then after the ligaments were sequentially divided.  When only the anterior cruciate ligament was sectioned, the pivot shift occurred in seven out of 20 knees examined.  In the other 13, though the pivot shift was not observed, an abnormal internal rotation occurred at between 10 degrees and 50 degrees of flexion.  Division of the iliotibial tract in addition to division of the anterior cruciate ligament stopped the pivot shift, as the tibia remained internally rotated throughout the range of flexion.  The axis of rotation of the pivot shift was located at the medial collateral ligament, which was kept tight by the applied valgus torque.  The sudden movement in the pivot shift was caused by a complex interaction between the geometry of the knee and the valgus torque applied.
The importance of calcium ions for in vitro malignant hyperthermia testing.  Intracellular Ca++ levels in skeletal muscle are elevated during the in vitro contracture response of muscle from subjects with malignant hyperthermia.  The role of Ca++ in the bathing medium and the consequences of substitution of Sr++ for Ca++ in the response to agents associated with malignant hyperthermia were examined.  When Ca++ was omitted from the bathing medium the contractures induced in human vastus lateralis by halothane (three per cent) or succinylcholine (50 mM) were reduced by 80 and 100 per cent, respectively, while contractures induced by caffeine (8 mM) were only reduced by 50 per cent.  Substitution of Ca++ by another divalent cation, Sr++, completely restored contractures induced by caffeine, but only partially restored contractures induced by halothane or succinylcholine (to 50 and 30 per cent of Ca(++)-containing medium, respectively).  Mepacrine (10 microM) was effective in antagonizing contractures by caffeine, whereas verapamil and nifedipine (10 microM) were not.  These results support an essential role for extracellular Ca++ not fulfilled by Sr++ in contracture induction by halothane and succinylcholine, but not by caffeine.
Bone loss in the distal anterior femur after total knee arthroplasty.  Bone loss in the distal anterior femur in asymptomatic total knee arthroplasty (TKA) patients has been noted roentgenographically and during revision surgery.  A retrospective roentgenographic review of 147 TKA cases was carried out to document bone loss.  The influence that the mode of fixation (porous coated and cemented) and the implant design have on bone loss was examined.  The time of onset and the progression of bone loss were studied.  Bone loss occurred in the distal anterior femur in the majority of cases reviewed (68%).  The prevalence of bone loss was independent of the mode of fixation and the implant design.  By qualitative observation, roentgenographically detectable bone loss occurred within the first postoperative year and did not progress further.  Previously three-dimensional finite element analysis demonstrated that the replacement of the bearing surface of the femur with a stiff metallic implant reduces the stress in the distal anterior femur by at least one order of magnitude.  It is therefore speculated that the observed bone loss results from stress shielding.  The apparent lack of progression may reflect the development of a new remodeling equilibrium under the altered stress conditions.  The bone loss in the distal anterior femur described has not been implicated as a source of failure.  However, since the bone strength in the femoral region is compromised as it becomes osteopenic, bone failure may occur with longer periods of cyclic loading.  Furthermore, as a result of bone loss, revision arthroplasty may be more difficult.
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome linked to tryptophan.  Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome has been linked to ingestion of tryptophan, but the exact cause of this recently recognized syndrome is unclear.  As in other reported cases, the disease in the patient described here developed while she was taking tryptophan.  Although eosinophilia resolved following glucocorticoid therapy, the disease in this patient continues to progress.
Central changes in hypothyroid myopathy: a case report.  A muscle biopsy from a patient with hypothyroid myopathy showed striking central changes.  "Cores" were seen in most type 1 fibers with oxidative enzyme preparations.  Electron microscopy of these areas revealed Z disc streaming, myofilament disruption, and absent mitochondria.  The myopathy rapidly improved with thyroxine treatment.  This biopsy is of interest, as numerous "cores" have not previously been reported in hypothyroid myopathy.
Osteoarthrosis and congenital dysplasia of the hip in family members of children who have congenital dysplasia of the hip [published erratum appears in J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1991 Feb;73(2):293]  Four hundred and eight siblings, parents, and grandparents of seventy-eight children from the New England area who had congenital dysplasia of the hip were evaluated, by clinical examination and by measurements of the acetabulum on pelvic radiographs, for the signs and sequelae of congenital dysplasia of the hip.  Six siblings and four mothers (representing seven of seventy-eight families) had been diagnosed with congenital dysplasia of the hip during childhood.  The other ninety-one siblings were asymptomatic and had no radiographic evidence of dysplasia of the hip.  In the adults in these families, acetabular coverage (as measured by the center-edge angle of Wiberg) was no different from that in the control subjects.  There was no difference between the study group and the control subjects in the prevalence of osteoarthrosis of the hip or of osteoarthrosis that could be considered secondary to congenital dysplasia of the hip.  The results indicate that children born to families that have a history of congenital dysplasia of the hip have a greater prevalence of this problem compared with the general population, but also that examinations of the hip in newborns are effective in detecting congenital dysplasia of the hip in such families.  The greater prevalence of congenital disease of the hip among the siblings and mothers in these families is consistent with a multifactorial inheritance.  The fact that acetabular development in the family members who did not have congenital dysplasia of the hip was no different from that in the control subjects suggests that acetabular dysplasia, rather than being an inherited abnormality, is secondary to subluxation or dislocation.
Nutritional rickets.  Nutritional rickets was diagnosed in 18 infants aged eight to 24 months.  Clinical features included progressive leg bowing, poor linear growth, a diet deficient in vitamin D, seizures, and abnormal serum calcium, phosphate and alkaline phosphatase levels.  Wrist radiographs and serum alkaline phosphatase levels were the most useful confirmatory tests.  Breast milk may not contain enough vitamin D to protect infants, particularly dark-skinned children and those living in cloudy, northern U.S.  cities, from rickets after six months of age.  As breast feeding becomes more widely practiced, care is required to ensure that infants at high risk for rickets receive appropriate vitamin D supplementation.
Transient cyst-like cortical defects following fractures in children. Medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma.  Asymptomatic cyst-like cortical defects appearing after fractures in children have been occasionally reported.  Typically, these defects appear during fracture consolidation, within the newly formed subperiosteal bone, proximal to the fracture line, do not enlarge, and progressively disappear.  We have previously shown a fatty density on CT scan within the early cortical defect.  We now present two additional cases in which early CT scans appeared to confirm that these transient cortical defects may consist of fat, and probably result from the inclusion of medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma.
Regenerating bone in clinical periodontics.  Bone autografts and allografts, various alloplastic materials, and guided tissue regeneration are used to reconstruct lost periodontal tissues.  This paper focuses on controversies related to these therapeutic modalities as well as their role in periodontal regeneration.
Human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, and Reiter's syndrome: a disease continuum?  The presence of peripheral arthritis and HLA-A, B, C, DR, and DQ antigens was evaluated prospectively in 18 Caucasian men with human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis.  An asymmetric polyarthritis occurred in 32% of the patients and correlated with the presence of HLA-B27.  Extensive clinical overlap between psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, and Reiter's syndrome was noted.  No significant excess of the HLA antigens previously found to be associated with psoriasis was seen, which suggests that human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis per se may instead constitute another form of spondylarthropathy that is more closely related to Reiter's syndrome.
The management of the painful first metatarsophalangeal joint in the older patient. Arthrodesis or Keller's arthroplasty?  We report a prospective randomised trial comparing Keller's arthroplasty and arthrodesis of the first metatarsophalangeal joint for the management of symptomatic hallux valgus and hallux rigidus in the older patient.  In 81 patients (110 feet), with a minimum of two years follow-up, both procedures gave a similar degree of patient satisfaction and symptom relief.  The incidence of metatarsalgia was also similar.  As there were no obvious advantages to arthrodesis, and since six out of 50 arthrodesed toes required revision, we suggest that Keller's arthroplasty is the better operation in these patients.
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis with oral 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3: a pilot study.  We conducted a 6-month open-label trial in which 10 patients with active psoriatic arthritis received 2 micrograms of oral 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 daily.  Statistically significant improvement was noted in the tender joint count and physician global impression.  Of these 10 patients, 4 had substantial (greater than or equal to 50%) improvement, and 3 had moderate (greater than or equal to 25%) improvement in the tender joint count.  Two patients were unable to receive therapeutic doses because of hypercalciuria.  High-dose vitamin D may be a useful therapeutic agent for psoriatic arthritis.
Sagittal plane analysis in idiopathic scoliosis patients treated with Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation.  One hundred sixty patients with idiopathic scoliosis treated with Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation (CDI) underwent preoperative and postoperative sagittal plane analysis of the thoracic spine, thoracolumbar junction, and lumbar spine.  The data suggest that mild to moderate improvements in thoracic hypokyphosis are possible.  When crossing the thoracolumbar junction, reversal of rod bend and reversal of hooks on the derotation rod appear to provide the most physiologic sagittal contour.  Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation to the mid and distal lumbar spine can preserve and, at times, enhance lumbar lordosis.
Electron transfer flavoprotein: ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF:QO) deficiency in an adult.  A 19-year-old woman with mild myopathic symptoms from age 6 and fasting intolerance presented with a Reye-like syndrome and a myopathy.  Investigations disclosed a lipid storage myopathy, type II glutaric acidemia, and carnitine deficiency in skeletal muscle.  Riboflavin and carnitine treatment corrected the metabolic abnormalities and she improved clinically.  She later died from pulmonary complications secondary to aspiration.  Subsequent studies established electron transfer flavoprotein: ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF:QO) deficiency (fibroblast ETF:QO activity was 2.9 mU/mg, normal range is 14.1 +/- 3.8 mU/mg) as the cause of her illness.  This is the first documented case of ETF:QO diagnosed in an adult.
Anterior acromioplasty for treatment of the shoulder impingement syndrome.  Between 1975 and 1979, anterior acromioplasty was performed in 65 patients with 66 involved shoulders.  The procedure appears to be safe and reasonably effective.  Of the 65 patients in this study, 50 had chronic tendon inflammation with fibrosis, and 16 also had a small supraspinatus tendon tear.  These 16 had rotator cuff repairs.  Twenty-six patients were also treated with distal clavicle excision, and seven had tenodesis of the long head of the biceps brachii.  The average age of the patients was 50 years (range, 23-75 years).  All patients were followed for an average of eight years (range, three to 13 years).  At final evaluation, no or slight pain was present in 77% of the shoulders: 39 of 50 without tendon tearing and 12 of 16 with tendon tearing and repair.  Active shoulder abduction averaged 167 degrees.  Ninety-two percent returned to employment, including 18% with some job modification.  Eighty-six percent returned to recreational athletics, 20% with some modification of activities.  Seven patients had additional surgical treatment.  The progression of rotator cuff disease is not always prevented, but the need for subsequent shoulder treatment generally decreases.
Primary inflammatory reaction in synovial fluid and tissue in rabbit immobilization osteoarthritis.  The kinetics and composition of the primary cellular inflammatory process were studied in the synovial fluid (SF) and synovial tissue (ST) compartments of a rabbit knee immobilization osteoarthritis model.  Immobilization induced rapid migration of neutrophils (59% +/- 26% of all cells) into SF in three days, which was accompanied by nonspecific esterase-positive monocytes (71% +/- 8% of all mononuclear cells).  This finding suggests that non-specific inflammation mediated by phagocytic leukocytes predominates the cellular response in the SF compartment.  In contrast, morphometric analysis of ST proper showed an inflammatory mononuclear cell response, the intensity of which diminished over time during the study period from Day 3 (416 +/- 59 cells per 0.049 mm2 ST tissue) through Day 10 (305 +/- 32 cells) to Day 35 (174 +/- 36 cells).  A dotlike T-pattern alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase (ANAE) was found in the T-cell-dependent areas of secondary lymphatic tissue in the spleen, enabling immunocytologic ANAE marker studies.  The ST response in situ was predominated by tissue macrophage, though infiltrates rich in T lymphocytes were present in the immediate sublining stroma.  There was a significant correlation between the intensity of the SF cell response (total recovery) and the percentage of neutrophils, but there was no correlation between the intensity of the ST response and the proportion of T lymphocytes.  These T-cell accumulations together with the local proliferation of fibroblastlike lining cells and stromal fibroblasts suggest that the primary inflammatory cell response is not caused by either wear and tear or mechanically by cartilage fragments.
Congenital craniofacial anomalies of ophthalmic importance.  Congenital craniofacial abnormalities frequently require ophthalmic evaluation and surgical management.  Called upon to perform as part of the craniofacial team managing the often severely deformed craniofacial patient, the ophthalmologist must bring a basic knowledge of craniofacial syndromes and developmental anatomy, as well as clinical acumen to help preserve or improve ocular and adnexal function.  As an introduction to this area of ophthalmology, the clinical features, classification, appropriate facial embryology, assessment and surgical considerations of the various congenital craniofacial abnormalities are reviewed.  The expanding availability of craniofacial surgeons and surgical teams along with improved surgical results will ultimately require an increasing involvement by many more ophthalmologists in the evaluation and management of these congenital abnormalities.
Hormone replacement therapy. How to select the best preparation and regimen.  Hormone replacement therapy is a mainstay of preventive healthcare for the maturing female population.  Estrogen deficiency that comes with menopause can have serious effects and is especially important in light of the increasing life expectancy of women.  Various estrogen and progesterone preparations are available, and their best application requires understanding of the different potencies and metabolic effects.  Daily maintenance therapy without a drug-free interval is becoming the standard method of the 1990s.  No doubt the future will bring even better delivery regimens.
Peripheral neuropathy associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  In 1989, the Centers for Disease Control recognized the existence of an epidemic illness characterized by myalgia and eosinophilia in individuals taking preparations containing L-tryptophan.  We evaluated 3 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who presented with subacute progressive neuropathies.  The neuropathies were predominantly motor and maximal in the lower extremities.  Two patients were confined to a wheelchair and one was ventilator-dependent and bedridden.  Sensory loss predominantly involved small fiber modalities.  Electrophysiological studies showed multifocal marked conduction slowing and conduction block indicating segmental demyelination, with associated axonal degeneration that was accentuated distally.  Examination of sural nerve biopsy specimens demonstrated axonal degeneration in all 3 patients and perivascular infiltrates in 2.  Levels of quinolinic acid, a neurotoxic metabolite of L-tryptophan, were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in the 2 patients in whom it was measured.  The cause of the neuropathy is unknown but may include immune mechanisms or toxicity of eosinophils, L-tryptophan, its metabolic products, or contaminants within L-tryptophan preparations.
Hypodense eosinophils and interleukin 5 activity in the blood of patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  The recent recognition of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS) associated with the ingestion of L-tryptophan prompted an analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophil phenotypes and of the serum eosinophil hematopoietins in this disorder.  Five patients with an illness characterized by the abrupt onset of aching skeletal muscles, edema, thickening and induration of the skin, and marked blood eosinophilia associated with L-tryptophan ingestion provided eosinophils, serum, or both, for evaluation.  Gradient sedimentation density analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophils from four of these patients revealed that 43 +/- 13% (mean +/- SEM) of the cells had converted to the abnormal (hypodense) sedimenting phenotype.  When normodense eosinophils from the reference donors were cultured for 3 days in medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of serum from the patients with EMS, their viability increased in a dose-dependent manner to 45%, which was significantly augmented over the effect of normal serum.  This eosinophil viability-sustaining activity was inhibited by 76 +/- 7% (mean +/- SEM; n = 3) by the addition of anti-interleukin 5 (IL-5) but not by neutralizing antibodies monospecific for either granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) or IL-3.  IL-5, an eosinophilopoietic factor, converts normodense peripheral blood eosinophils in vitro to a hypodense sedimenting form with extended viability and augmented biologic responses to activating stimuli.  Thus, the presence of IL-5 in the sera of patients with EMS may contribute to the development and maintenance of the eosinophilia and may regulate the conversion of the peripheral blood eosinophils to the hypodense phenotype with augmented pathobiologic potential.
The sulphated glycosaminoglycan levels in synovial fluid aspirates in patients with acute and chronic joint disease.  Proteoglycan levels were measured in a series of synovial fluid samples from patients with acute and chronic joint diseases using a modified chemical dye binding method.  Levels found in 50 miscellaneous inflammatory arthritis fluids (mean = 173.2 +/- 90.9 micrograms/ml) were higher than found in either 50 with rheumatoid arthritis (96.3 +/- 31.3 micrograms/ml) or 50 with osteoarthritis (83.8 +/- 27.3 micrograms/ml).  For comparison, proteoglycan levels were measured in 15 cadaver synovial fluids (98.9 +/- 44.2 micrograms/ml) and 12 synovial fluids from patients with sports injury (163.7 +/- 79.4 micrograms/ml).  Patients were recruited into a trial where synovial fluid was aspirated as often as possible over a 6-month period during which the patients were followed using a number of well proven clinical parameters.  No correlation was found between the degree of joint destruction as measured by X-ray damage and the concentration or total amount of proteoglycan in the synovial fluid.  In addition, there was no correlation between the level or total amount of proteoglycan and any clinical parameter of disease activity.
Rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure.  The pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance.  In both cases, the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and %VC was less than 30%.  Remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night.  The cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints.  All the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died.  Appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis.
Chiari pelvic osteotomy for osteoarthritis. The influence of the torn and detached acetabular labrum.  We assessed the results of Chiari pelvic osteotomy in 64 hips with early osteoarthritis in terms of acetabular labral detachment detected pre-operatively by arthrography.  At an average follow-up of four years, assessment by the Merle d'Aubigne score showed 83% excellent or good results.  These satisfactory results were achieved in only half the cases with a detached labrum, but in nearly all cases with normal or torn acetabular labra.  Other factors such as the acetabular index, the level and angle of osteotomy, and the displacement following osteotomy did not affect the results.  Chiari pelvic osteotomy is a worthwhile procedure for early osteoarthritis in selected cases, but a detached acetabular labrum increases the risk of clinical failure.
Cystic rheumatoid arthritis: description of a nonerosive form.  In a study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 9% (n = 70) were found to have a cystic form.  At radiologic examination of these patients with cystic RA, the first abnormality seen consisted of periarticular intraosseous cysts without erosions.  The cysts were distributed symmetrically, most often located at the proximal side of the joints and predominantly around the proximal interphalangeal, metacarpophalangeal, and wrist joints of the hands and the first interphalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints of the feet.  Computed tomographic scans showed the peripheral intraosseous location of the cysts.  Magnetic resonance images showed that the cysts may contain fluid, inflamed synovia, or both.  Cysts can be an important feature in the diagnosis of RA and a supplement to the criteria of the American Rheumatism Association.  Osteoporosis, joint-space narrowing, and joint destruction occurred less frequently in patients with cystic RA than in patients with classic RA.  Of the patients with cystic RA, 54% were male, and 50% were seronegative.  This study is a supplement to and an enlargement on earlier descriptions of cyst predominance in RA.
Bone fragility of the peripheral skeleton during fluoride therapy for osteoporosis.  Bone fragility during fluoride therapy for osteoporosis was observed in 24 (37.5%) of 64 patients treated with sodium fluoride, calcium, and vitamin D for 2.5 years who developed episodes of lower-limb pain during treatment.  Eighteen (28%) of these patients had clinical and roentgenographic features of 41 stress fractures and 12 new spinal fractures.  There were 26 periarticular, six femoral neck, three pubic rami, three tibia and fibula, one greater trochanter, and two subtrochanteric fractures.  Vertebral fractures appeared first, then periarticular, then femoral neck, and lastly long-bone shaft fractures.  All fractures were spontaneous in onset.  The peripheral fracture rate during treatment was three times that in untreated osteoporosis.  Roentgenograms must be repeated at intervals of three to four weeks before the pathognomonic callus becomes visible, and the diagnosis can be made.  Trabecular stress fractures tend to occur in the first 18 months of treatment, and cortical stress fractures occur after 30 months of therapy.
Sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes.  Sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions.  Disseminated N.  gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis, which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy.  In contrast, both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic "reactive" arthritis or Reiter's syndrome.  Inheritance of HLA B27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition.  The demonstration of C.  trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class I HLA antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease.  Arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50% of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis B infection.  Joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions, especially on the legs; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice.  Hepatitis B infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis, which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis.  Seronegative arthritis, including Reiter's syndrome, psoriatic arthritis, and undifferentiated arthritis, a Sjogren's-like syndrome, vasculitis, and myopathies have been described in association with HIV infection.  It is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that HIV is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired.  Nevertheless, synovitis may occur in the presence of marked CD4-positive lymphocyte depletion.  Rheumatic syndromes, including arthralgia, inflammatory arthritis, and neuropathic arthritis, may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis.  Syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy, but neuropathic lesions cannot be treated effectively.  Septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated Mycoplasma or Urea-plasma infections, and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale.
Incidence of polymyositis-dermatomyositis: a 20-year study of hospital diagnosed cases in Allegheny County, PA 1963-1982.  The incidence of hospital diagnosed polymyositis-dermatomyositis (PM-DM) among residents of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County, PA was determined from 1963 to 1982.  Medical records of all Allegheny County hospitals were searched for patients diagnosed PM-DM, and each accepted case was reviewed and verified by a physician, according to specified criteria.  Direct age adjusted incidence rates were computed for race and sex, as new cases/million population/year, with the 1970 Allegheny County population as the standard.  One hundred seventy-seven cases were identified during this 20-year survey for a total annual incidence of 5.5/million population.  Incidence more than tripled during 1973-1982 compared to the first decade of study, with the greatest increase occurring in black women.  Overall, the female to male incidence ratio was 2.2:1, but during the childbearing years (ages 15-44) this ratio increased to greater than 5:1 in both races.  Detection of PM-DM is increasing, as shown by temporal trends.  Although our series has significantly more adult PM and less DM and overlap cases than other published studies, annual incidence is similar to that reported in other locales.
Chondrosarcoma of bone in children.  Chondrosarcoma of bone rarely occurs in children.  This report analyzes the clinicopathologic features in a series of 47 patients with conventional chondrosarcoma who were less than 17 years of age.  Of the 47 cases, 14 were from the Mayo Clinic files, and 33 were from our consultation files.  Most of the lesions occurred in the trunk and upper ends of the long bones, with the humerus being the most frequent skeletal site.  Twelve of the 47 tumors were secondary.  The radiographic findings were the same as those seen in adult chondrosarcoma.  Pathologically, the tumors were low grade.  En bloc resection is the treatment of choice because of the high incidence of local recurrence with lesser surgical margins.  Prognosis in childhood chondrosarcoma is no different from that in adult chondrosarcoma.  None of the patients with follow-up data had metastasis.
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with L-tryptophan ingestion. Analysis of four patients and implications for differential diagnosis and pathogenesis   Four patients fulfilling the case definition for eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome are described, including one whose disease began in 1986.  Each displayed a variety of symptoms: one suffered principally from myalgia and recovered spontaneously on discontinuation of L-tryptophan therapy; one exhibited progressive sclerodermiform skin changes, neuropathy, and myopathy; a third had prominent neuromuscular disease and sclerodermiform skin changes; and the fourth experienced profound weight loss, an axonal polyneuropathy, and perivascular lymphoid infiltrates simulating a lymphoma.  Evidence of T-cell activation was present in peripheral blood and affected tissues during the clinically active progressive phase of disease.  Among other manifestations pleural effusion, cutaneous vasculitis, joint contractures, and bloody diarrhea were observed.  A history of L-tryptophan ingestion should be sought in patients with myalgia, fatigue, or the above outlined symptoms.
A surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine.  We describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine, the brachial plexus and related vessels.  The method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium, the sternoclavicular joint, and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle.  We have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results.  Its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia, surgical technique and postoperative care.
Simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections.  A simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections was done on 19 limbs with 84% good results for healing.  The first stage was the standard below-knee amputation with a long posterior flap in which the fascia and skin were closed in the central portion with the medial and lateral portions of the wound left open for drainage.  The second stage was delayed until closure of the open wounds three to seven days after the first stage.  Wagner's classification of diabetic foot lesions was used to stratify these cases.  Grades 3 and 4 foot infections had a uniformly good prognosis for healing with this surgical technique.  Grade 5 foot infections had a poor prognosis for healing, especially if associated with renal failure and dialysis, even with an initial guillotine amputation.
External fixation for type III open tibial fractures.  An analysis of 51 type III open tibial fractures treated by external skeletal fixation is presented.  The fractures are subdivided according to the classification of Gustilo, Mendoza and Williams (1984) into types IIIa, IIIb and IIIc.  The different prognoses of these fracture subtypes is examined.  The use of the Hoffmann and Hughes external fixators in the management of type III open tibial fractures is presented and it is suggested that the prognosis is independent of the type of fixator used.
Effects of rib elongation on the spine. II. Correction of scoliosis in the rabbit.  Three intercostal nerves on the right side of growing rabbits were resected partially.  From 1 to 3 months later, moderate left-convex thoracic scoliosis with rotation of vertebrae had developed, and the sagittal curvatures of the spine had diminished.  In one group of these animals, a mechanically produced increase of 1 cm in the length of one rib on the side of the convexity resulted in an immediate correction of the scoliotic deformity, an improvement that was still evident 3 weeks after the operation.  In two other groups of rabbits, a further resection of three intercostal nerves, this time on the left convex side, 1 and 2 months after the first operation, resulted in regression of scoliosis or halted its progression.  These results further support a new concept in which the precipitating factor in the development of scoliosis is ascribed to asymmetric longitudinal growth of the ribs.  They also suggest that regulation of the rib length could be a promising approach to the effective correction of progressive scoliosis at an early stage in man.
A multicenter analysis of percutaneous discectomy.  This study was performed to evaluate a group of patients undergoing percutaneous discectomy.  All patients had a single level unilateral L4-5 or L5-S1 disc herniation documented on either computer tomographic (CT) scan, myelogram, and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).  Average follow-up after percutaneous discectomy was 16.8 months (range, 2-46 months).  The average hospitalization time was 1.7 days (range, 1-5 days).  Only 21 patients (55%) were able to return to work after the procedure.  Thirteen patients ultimately underwent surgical discectomy for continued symptoms after the procedure.  The additional 4 patients did not undergo surgical discectomy and never returned to work.  Of those 25 percutaneous discectomy patients who did not undergo surgical discectomy, there was significantly more pain, residual weakness, and numbness compared with the patients undergoing surgical discectomy.  The results of this study clearly indicate that percutaneous discectomy does not appear to be as predictable or successful a treatment modality as surgical discectomy.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy for necrotizing fasciitis reduces mortality and the need for debridements.  Twenty-nine patients with necrotizing fasciitis were treated from 1980 to 1988.  This study evaluates how the addition of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy to surgical treatment has affected mortality and the number of debridements required to achieve wound control in these patients.  Two groups of patients were viewed: group 1 (n = 12) received surgical debridement and antibiotics only; group 2 (n = 17) received HBO (90 minutes at 2.5 atm, average 7.4 treatments) in addition to surgery and antibiotics.  Both groups were similar in age, race, sex, wound bacteriology, and antimicrobial therapy.  Body surface area affected was similar, however, perineal involvement was more common in group 2 (53%) than in group 1 (12%).  The admitting conditions of patients in group 1 (non-HBO) were diabetic, 33%; white blood cell count more than 12,000, 50%; and shock, 8%.  The admitting conditions of patients in group 2 (HBO) were diabetic, 47%; white blood cell count more than 12,000, 59%; and shock, 29%.  Although group 2 patients receiving HBO were more seriously ill on admission, mortality was significantly lower (23%) compared to group 1 (66%) (p less than 0.02).  In addition, only 1.2 debridements per group 2 patient were required to achieve wound control versus 3.3 debridements per group 1 patient (p less than 0.03).  The addition of HBO therapy to the surgical and antimicrobial treatment of necrotizing fasciitis significantly reduced mortality and wound morbidity (number of debridements) in this study, especially among nonclostridial infections.  We conclude that HBO should be used routinely in the treatment of necrotizing fasciitis.
L-tryptophan implicated in human eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome causes fasciitis and perimyositis in the Lewis rat.  Tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (L-TRP-EMS) is a newly described syndrome which occurred in epidemic fashion in the United States in the summer and fall of 1989.  Epidemiologic data has linked the syndrome to intake of L-tryptophan (L-TRP) from one specific manufacturer, but the precise etiologic compound(s) must be established by replication of the syndrome in an appropriate animal model.  In this study, implicated L-TRP, United States Pharmacopeia (USP) grade L-TRP, or vehicle was administered by gavage in a blinded fashion for 38 d to female Lewis rats at doses comparable with those ingested by patients who developed the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Animals receiving implicated L-TRP, but not those receiving USP grade L-TRP or vehicle, developed histologic signs consistent with fasciitis and perimyositis, specific pathologic features of human L-TRP-EMS.  Peripheral blood eosinophilia was not observed.  Hypothalamic corticotropin releasing hormone mRNA levels were lower and plasma corticosterone levels tended to be lower in the animals that received implicated L-TRP.  Plasma L-kynurenine was higher in both L-TRP-treated groups compared to the vehicle-treated animals.  The female Lewis rat is known to be susceptible to a wide variety of inflammatory diseases.  Identification of specific inflammatory changes in this rat following exposure to implicated L-TRP indicates that this animal model will be important in subsequent investigations into the etiology, pathogenesis, and treatment of human L-TRP-EMS.
Attenuation of suxamethonium myalgias. Effect of midazolam and vecuronium.  We studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone, N2O, isoflurane anaesthesia.  Four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline (group 1), tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg (group 2), vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg (group 3), or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg (group 4), followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg.  Group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant (no suxamethonium).  Fasciculations were graded, and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days.  In groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95, 15, 25, 95 and 0%; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70, 45, 65, 75 and 60%, and on the third day after operation 20, 5, 20, 20, and 5%, respectively.  We conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium, but not midazolam, decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium (p less than 0.05) and that in this patient population, postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium.
Metabolic bone disease in lumbar pseudarthrosis.  Pseudarthrosis occurs in many patients who undergo lumbar spine fusion and it has been suggested that abnormalities of bone metabolism contribute to it.  The authors evaluated 47 patients with pseudarthrosis for metabolic bone disease.  Symptomatic patients with pseudarthrosis underwent metabolic bone evaluation.  Abnormal results of laboratory tests were found in 7 patients (14.9%): 3 low or borderline 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D3, 2 elevated 24-hour urine calcium, and 2 low serum testosterone.  None of these abnormalities correlated with other clinical findings.  Bone density was low in 14 of 24 patients in whom it was measured.  Low values did not correlate with smoking or abnormal laboratory values.  Metabolic bone abnormalities do not appear to play a frequent or significant role in pseudarthrosis after attempted lumbar spine fusion.
Kyphoscoliosis and respiratory failure. A patient treated with assisted ventilation for 27 years.  A 62-year-old woman had had kyphoscoliosis since age 12 years.  Respiratory failure developed at age 35 years following a respiratory infection.  A tracheostomy was done and she required assisted ventilation using a respiratory (Bird).  Many attempts at weaning her from the ventilator were unsuccessful.  She has remained dependent on assisted ventilation for more than 27 years but has had a relatively comfortable and meaningful life.  In 1983, a left pleuroscopy was done related to recurrent pneumothorax and numerous small bullae were seen on the lung surface.  Recent investigation using computed tomographic scanning has shown patchy areas of emphysema in both lungs.  Emphysema is not a feature of kyphoscoliosis and it is suggested that intermittent positive pressure applied to the lung over long duration may cause the lung destruction of emphysema.
Total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus.  A retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus.  The overall infection rate was 7%, with an overall revision rate of 10% and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years.  Wound complications were present in 12% of the TKAs.  The rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients.  Therefore, maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having TKA to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis.
Abdominal wall pain: an alternative diagnosis.  The cause of abdominal pain need not necessarily reside in the viscera; the abdominal wall is another source of symptoms.  Some causes of abdominal wall pain are obvious, e.g.  hernias, but not so others such as nerve entrapment syndromes.  This review is concerned with causes of abdominal wall pain which, although common, may be easily overlooked.
Five-year postoperative results of cemented femoral arthroplasty in patients with systemic bone disease.  To determine whether bone cellular abnormality affects the results of cemented femoral arthroplasty, 21 patients had biopsies of the iliac crest and femoral cortex at the time of surgery.  Roentgenographic and histomorphometric studies were used to characterize fibrous membrane formation, cancellous bone, calcar resorption, and bone turnover.  Patients with high bone turnover and decreased femoral thickness and density before surgery were at risk of developing calcar resorption and cancellous diaphyses, conditions that weaken proximal stem support and lead to early failure.  These findings suggest that noncemented stems may be indicated in this group.  Another group, osteoporotic patients, suffered from osteoblastic insufficiency, which may be the indication for the use of cemented stems rather than noncemented stems, which require bony ingrowth.
Renal disease in chronic arthritis of childhood. A study of urinary N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and beta 2-microglobulin excretion.  Urinalyses of randomly obtained samples from children with various types of chronic arthritis revealed proteinuria in 2.3% of patients, hemoglobinuria in 3.5%, erythrocyturia in 4.1%, and leukocyturia in 5.3%; these frequencies are within the range found by screening school children.  However, raised urinary levels of N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and/or beta 2-microglobulin (both sensitive measures of renal tubular damage) were found more frequently in children with chronic arthritis than in controls (P less than 0.0001).  Abnormalities of either N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase or beta 2-microglobulin excretion were associated with active arthritis as measured by physician global estimate of disease activity, with a polyarticular onset of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, and with the use of slow-acting antirheumatic drugs or the concurrent use of more than 1 nonsteroidal antiinflamtory drug.  Abnormal renal tubular function appears to be common in chronic arthritis of childhood.  The long-term consequences of this abnormality remain to be elucidated.
Limited precision of lumbar spine dual-photon absorptiometry by variations in the soft-tissue background.  The estimation error due to variations in soft-tissue baseline in lumbar bone mineral content (BMC) measured by dual-photon absorptiometry (DPA) was calculated with a new method of automatic baseline subtraction.  In water phantom measurements, the s.d.  of the soft-tissue (ST) baseline matched closely (r = 0.98) to the random error, calculated using 44 keV and 100 keV count rates and the directly determined baseline variations.  In 21 volunteers and in 70 patients with osteoporosis, the ST variations were larger than the expected random error, revealing a source of error related to the inhomogeneity of soft tissue.  The estimation error in BMC caused by ST variations was 0.7% in healthy subjects (mean BMC 40.5 gHA) and 1.5% in patients (mean BMC = 26.4 gHA).  These results indicate that ST-related errors are an important limit to the precision of lumbar DPA measurements.
Disc space infection: a case report with MRI diagnosis.  Vertebral disc space infection is an uncommon cause of back pain.  Physical findings may be unimpressive and laboratory evaluation may only disclose an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate.  Magnetic resonance imaging is particularly useful, since it reveals abnormalities earlier than plain radiographs and is more precise than bone scan.
1990 Volvo Award in experimental studies. Anulus tears and intervertebral disc degeneration. An experimental study using an animal model.  An animal model was developed to test the hypothesis that discrete peripheral tears within the anulus lead to secondary degenerative changes in other disc components.  In 21 adult sheep, a cut was made in the left anterolateral anulus of three randomly selected lumbar discs.  The cut was parallel and adjacent to the inferior end-plate, and had a controlled depth of 5 mm.  This left the inner third of the anulus and the nucleus pulposus intact and closely reproduced the rim Lear lesion described by Schmorl.  Animals were randomly allocated to different groups in relation to the length of time interval between operation and death, varying from 1 to 18 months.  At death, the lumbar spine was cut into individual joint units and each disc sectioned into six parasagittal slabs.  After observation of the slabs under the dissecting microscope, two of the six slabs, the one containing the anulus lesion and a contralateral, were processed for histology.  The results of this study suggest that, despite the great care taken at operation to ensure that the inner anulus was left intact, progressive failure of the inner anulus was seen in all sheep and occurred in the majority of discs between 4 and 12 months after the operation.  Although the outermost anulus showed the ability to heal, the defect induced by the cut led initially to deformation and bulging of the collagen bundles, and eventually to inner extension of the tear and complete failure.  These findings suggest that discrete tears of the outer anulus may have a role in the formation of concentric clefts and in accelerating the development of radiating clefts.  Peripheral tears of the anulus fibrosus therefore may play an important role in the degeneration of the intervertebral joint complex.
Adherent synovial cells from nonrheumatoid arthritis do not release interleukin 1 beta and prostaglandin E2 spontaneously in longterm culture.  Adherent synovial cells from both 13 patients without rheumatoid arthritis (RA) (gout, osteoarthritis and meniscal lesion) and 8 patients with RA consisted of dendritic cells, macrophage-like cells and fibroblast-like cells after cloning in a similar fashion as reported in our previous paper.  All the adherent synovial cells from patients without RA did not release interleukin 1 (IL-1) beta and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) spontaneously, while those cells released comparable amounts of IL-1 beta, but not PGE2 to RA cells after type II collagen stimulation.  Only the synovial cells from RA, irrespective of morphology and cloning, released IL-1 beta and PGE2 without stimulation.  Nonrheumatoid synovial cells may differ functionally from RA cells.
Muscle involvement in the scleroderma syndromes.  Muscle involvement was identified in 14 patients with scleroderma or a connective tissue disease overlap syndrome with predominant features of scleroderma.  Patients presented with symmetrical proximal weakness indistinguishable from other inflammatory myopathies.  Creatine kinase and electromyography were useful to demonstrate muscle involvement.  Muscle histopathology demonstrated primarily the vasculopathy of scleroderma or polymyositis in similar numbers of patients.  Scleroderma vasculopathy and polymyositis generally occur without specificity to diffuse scleroderma, the calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly, telangiectasia syndrome, or an overlap syndrome with arthritis.  Polymyositis also occurs when the vasculopathy of scleroderma involves other organ systems.
Factors influencing the development of metabolic bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis.  The prevalence, type, and factors that may influence the development of bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis, have been investigated in 20 consecutive patients, who, in addition to liver function tests and mineral and vitamin D metabolism studies, were submitted to a transiliac bone biopsy after tetracycline double-labeling for quantitative histomorphometric examination.  Intestinal calcium absorption was also assessed in 16 patients.  Seven patients (35%) had reduced bone volume and were considered osteoporotic.  Three also had bone mineralization impairment, but did not have criteria for osteomalacia.  Bone formation was depressed in 15 patients, and bone resorption was low or normal in 19 cases.  Eroded surfaces were reduced in all osteoporotic patients.  Duration of primary biliary cirrhosis was significantly longer in patients with osteoporosis (6.3 +/- 0.6 yr) than in those without osteoporosis (2.6 +/- 0.6, p = 0.004).  Moreover, osteoporosis was more prevalent in postmenopausal women, and in those who had intestinal calcium malabsorption, which was present in 80% of osteoporotic patients but in only 18% of nonosteoporotic patients (p = 0.03).  Osteoporosis and mineralization bone impairment were unrelated to the severity of cholestasis.  25-Hydroxyvitamin D was significantly lower in those patients with intestinal calcium malabsorption.  The results of this study indicate that osteodystrophy in primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized mainly by "low-turnover" osteoporosis, which is related to the duration of the liver disease, postmenopausal condition, and calcium malabsorption.
The effect of early fronto-orbital advancement on frontal sinus development and forehead aesthetics.  The frontal sinuses make an important contribution to normal forehead and glabellar contour.  This study was designed to test our clinical impression that early fronto-orbital ("frontal bone") advancement could have an adverse effect on frontal sinus development and consequently on forehead aesthetics.  A retrospective study was conducted on 11 patients who had undergone fronto-orbital advancement and also had a long period of follow-up at the Institute of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery at New York University.  The longitudinal cephalometric data were compared with unoperated controls.  With one exception, no patient who underwent bilateral fronto-orbital advancement developed a frontal sinus, and all such patients had a flattened brow contour when compared with unoperated patients, of whom 82 percent developed at least one frontal sinus.  Of the three patients who underwent unilateral fronto-orbital advancement for plagiocephaly (flattened forehead), two developed a frontal sinus but only on the unoperated side and one developed bilateral frontal sinuses.  The two patients with unilateral frontal sinus development had a particularly obvious deformity resulting from normal glabellar projection on the unoperated side and a flattened contour on the operated side.  Fronto-orbital advancement affects forehead aesthetics and should be performed only in infant patients with moderate to severe deformities.  patients with plagiocephaly whose deformity is sufficiently severe to warrant surgery should preferably undergo bilateral fronto-orbital advancement (by the technique described) rather than unilateral advancement in order to avoid the brow asymmetry that results from unilateral frontal sinus development.
Measurement of anterior-posterior displacement of the knee. A comparison of the results with instrumented devices and with clinical examination.  Thirteen subjects who had normal knees and fifteen patients who had a chronic rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament were tested in order to compare the measurements of tibiofemoral displacement as recorded by four commercial devices: the Acufex knee-signature system, the Genucom knee-analysis system, the Medmetric KT-1000 arthrometer, and the Stryker knee-laxity tester.  Anterior and posterior displacement were measured at forces of eighty-nine newtons (twenty pounds) and 133 newtons (thirty pounds).  We found significant differences in reproducibility of measurement among the devices.  The Acufex, Medmetric, and Stryker devices had more reproducible measurements, and they could be used to identify 80 to 90 per cent of the normal subjects and anterior cruciate-deficient patients.  The Genucom device had poorer reproducibility of measurement, and it tended to register greater differences in displacement between the right and left knees of normal subjects.
Quantitative gamma-ray computed tomography of the radius in normal subjects and osteoporotic patients.  A new design of gamma-ray computed tomography (CT) scanner was used to measure bone density in 516 normal adults and in 116 female patients with osteoporotic fractures.  Trabecular bone density (TBD) was measured for a core of the ultradistal radius; cortical bone mass per unit length (MLS) and mass per unit volume (MVS) were computed for the radius shaft.  TBD, MLS and MVS peaked at the age of about 40 in females and fell by 32%, 15% and 24%, respectively, by the age of 65.  In males, TBD decreased from the third decade and MLS and MVS peaked in the fourth decade.  The corresponding falls by 65 years were 20%, 6% and 7%.  In patients with Colles' fracture TBD and MLS were reduced by 13% and 10%, respectively, relative to age matched normal female subjects.  For patients with vertebral crush fracture the reductions relative to age matched normal females were 36%, 17% and 16% for TBD, MLS and MVS.  In fracture patients the deficit in TBD was significantly greater than that for cortical bone but TBD was no better at discriminating normal and osteoporotic individuals because of its larger normal range.  We conclude that gamma-ray CT may best be used for monitoring changes in bone rather than as a diagnostic screening tool.
Prerandomization: an alternative to classic randomization. The effects on recruitment in a controlled trial of arthroscopy for osteoarthrosis of the knee.  Possibly the greatest threat to the success of a randomized clinical trial is the inability to recruit an adequate number of subjects.  Concern that the randomized clinical trial will adversely affect the physician-patient relationship is the most common reason for physicians' reluctance to enroll patients in such trials.  We report a modification of a prerandomized design, first described by Zelen, which was implemented in a randomized clinical trial of arthroscopy for patients who had osteoarthrosis of the knee.  The method was associated with a sixfold increase in the rate of accrual of patients as compared with the use of a classic randomization trial.  We propose the design as a potential solution to the problem of recruitment of subjects, particularly for clinical studies.
Serum uric acid correlates in elderly men and women with special reference to body composition and dietary intake (Dutch Nutrition Surveillance System).  In 460 apparently healthy Dutch elderly, aged 65-79 years, serum uric acid correlates were studied by linear regression analyses, for men and women separately.  Diuretic therapy, total serum cholesterol (women only) and creatinine clearance (in bivariate analysis only) were significantly associated with serum uric acid level.  Positive associations of serum uric acid with body weight, body mass index, body fatness (men) and lean body mass (men) were observed, with and without adjustment for diuretic therapy, creatinine clearance and age.  Serum uric acid levels, whether adjusted or not for these variables and for body mass index, were positively associated with alcohol intake (men) and consumption of meat and fish (women), and inversely with consumption of bread, margarine and milk products (women).  These results indicate that limited medication with diuretics, weight control and restriction of alcohol use may help to prevent hyperuricemia in the elderly.
Prevention of a false diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis by synovial lymphocyte responses.  Three cases are reported in which a diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis might have been made erroneously from the history, but the enteric origin of the reactive arthritis was evident from synovial lymphocyte responses.  The importance of making the correct diagnosis and the avoidance of unwarranted spousal dysharmony is stressed.
The influence of renal function on diabetic foot ulceration.  We examined the effect of renal function on the formation, severity, and outcome of diabetic foot lesions.  Information was collected from a retrospective hospital chart survey and analyzed by univariate and multivariate linear regression analysis.  Creatinine clearance, peripheral neuropathy, and peripheral vascular disease were all found to be independently associated with formation of foot lesions, indicating that each of these acts by distinct biologic mechanisms.  Renal function had no bearing on the severity of lesions or on their eventual healing.  We conclude that foot ulcers are more likely to develop in diabetic patients who also suffer from renal impairment, but they are no less likely to heal than are those in patients with normal renal function.  We further conclude that attempts to preserve functional limbs in these patients are justified.
Osteoporosis and back pain in the elderly. A controlled epidemiologic and radiographic study.  The incidence of back pain was investigated in hip fracture patients, 50-99 years of age, and in 70-, 75-, and 81-year-old controls from the same population.  The prevalence of vertebral fractures were evaluated from spinal radiographs.  Eighty hip fracture patients and 103 controls, all between 70 and 75 years of age, were included in the radiographic study.  The incidence of back pain of the controls was twice that of the hip fracture patients, 45-48% compared with 23-20%, respectively, for both female and male subjects.  Conversely, vertebral fractures were radiographically shown in 43% of the hip fracture patients and in 22% of the controls.  Thus, the major explanation for longstanding back pain in the elderly does not appear to be related to spinal osteoporosis.
Joint inflammation provoked by a local synovial allergic reaction.  Homocytotropic antibody was stimulated in animals by administering protein antigens in a vaccine with B.  pertussis adjuvant.  The titers of the allergic antibody responses were judged by passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reactions.  Sera or globulin fractions containing high titers of antibody activity were injected into the knee joints of experimental animals.  After sufficient delay for unfixed proteins to be cleared from the knee joints, animals were challenged intravenously with the corresponding antigen.  The resultant local reaction of swelling and warmth (passive synovial anaphylaxis) was judged visually and by scanning procedures.  Histological studies showed evidence of mast cell degranulation concurrent with synovial reaction.
Estrogen therapy during menopause and the treatment of osteoporosis.  Estrogen remains the single most effective agent in the treatment of menopausal symptoms and prevention of bone loss.  This article focuses on the use of estrogen therapy during menopause and the pharmacotherapy of osteoporosis.  Risks and benefits of hormonal therapy and regimen selection for menopausal women are discussed.  The second section of the article focuses on current treatment strategies for osteoporosis.
Reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients.  In this prospective study, mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between July 1988 and January 1990.  Sixteen patients had prior surgery; 13 had prior radiotherapy.  In 11 patients, prior radiation and surgery had failed.  Sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions.  Twelve patients had complications of either intraoral (8), extraoral (5), or combined (1) plate exposure or fistula formation (2).  Factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition, accelerated radiation, and recurrence.  Sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully.  When patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded, the success rate was 73%.  Only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair.
Cross-sectional radiography for implant site assessment.  An accurate tomographic technique is described for acquisition of optimal cross-sectional images of implant sites before implant surgery.  The described technique is applicable to tomographic systems equipped with a cephalometric head positioner.  This cross-sectional tomographic technique was performed on a series of patients and the images of the first 20 patients subsequently evaluated.  The cross-sectional images allowed for the characterization of the alveolar crest and visualization of anatomic structures in a buccolingual dimension while providing an accurate estimation of available vertical space from the crest.
Osteoma of the middle ear. Report of a case.  Osteomas of the middle ear are rare.  We report a case of a 7-year-old boy with osteoma originating from the pyramidal eminence, combined with congenital cholesteatoma.  The osteoma and cholesteatoma were successfully removed by tympanomastoidectomy.  The long process of the incus and the superstructure of the stapes disappeared.  The body of the incus was sculpted and used as a columella.  Histopathologically, the osteoma was much the same as an external auditory canal osteoma.  The possibility of a primary congenital origin of this neoplasm is suggested.
Interleukin-1-induced interleukin-6 is required for the inhibition of proteoglycan synthesis by interleukin-1 in human articular cartilage.  Cartilage from normal controls, patients with osteoarthritis, and patients with rheumatoid arthritis produced no interleukin-6 (IL-6) in culture.  However, IL-1 induced massive production of IL-6 (up to 135 ng/ml) in cartilage from all 3 sources, in a dose-dependent manner (in some cases, a peak value was reached).  The levels of induced IL-6 were similar to those found in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fluid.  At IL-1 concentrations that induced almost complete inhibition of proteoglycan (PG) synthesis, IL-6 production could still be increased considerably.  Exogenous IL-6 inhibited PG synthesis by up to 25%.  IL-1-induced inhibition of PG synthesis was reversed by antibodies against recombinant human IL-6.  These results suggest that IL-6 is required for the IL-1-induced inhibition of PG synthesis.
Isolated congenital stapes ankylosis: surgical results in 32 ears and a review of the literature.  Isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is described in 32 operated ears from 28 patients.  In 27 ears, a regular stapedectomy was performed.  In the remaining 5 ears, 2 had stapes gushers, 2 had bony stapedial tendons, and 1 had an aberrant facial nerve crossing the oval window.  The average individual hearing gain was 20 dB.  The mean hearing gain for the 24 successful stapedectomies was 29 dB.  In 24 of 32 ears (75%), an essential hearing gain of at least 15 dB Fletcher's index hearing threshold could be achieved.  A Fletcher's index not exceeding 30 dB could be achieved in 19 of 32 ears (60%), in spite of several cases with a sensorineural component in the hearing loss.  A review of the literature and overview of longer series with isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is presented.
Use of a knee-brace for control of tibial translation and rotation. A comparison, in cadavera, of available models.  We assessed the relative restraints that are provided by fourteen currently available functional knee-braces, using six limbs in cadavera.  The tests were made at 30 and 60 degrees of flexion of the knee, and a mechanical loading system applied loads that caused anterior-posterior translation and internal-external rotation.  The braces limited abnormal tibiofemoral displacements by 10 to 75 per cent in translation; there was more variation in rotation.  This study demonstrated that functional knee-braces provide a restraining influence that may be beneficial in the control of abnormal displacements of the knee, but that the degree of restraint varies considerably.
Adrenal medullary implants in the rat spinal cord reduce nociception in a chronic pain model.  Previous work in this laboratory has indicated that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the rat spinal cord can reduce pain sensitivity to acute noxious stimuli, particularly following stimulation by nicotine.  This most likely results from the stimulated release of opioid peptides and catecholamines from the transplanted chromaffin cells.  However, chronic pain models may more closely resemble human clinical pain, and the arthritic rat model has been used for screening potential therapeutic strategies.  The purpose of the present study was to assess the potential for adrenal medullary tissue implanted into the spinal subarachnoid space to alleviate chronic pain.  Adrenal medullary tissue was implanted into adjuvant-induced arthritic rats, and changes in body weight and vocalization responses were monitored over the 10 week course of the disease.  Results indicate that the severe weight reduction normally associated with this inflammatory arthritis was attenuated by adrenal medullary, but not control, implants.  In addition, vocalizations were reduced in animals implanted with adrenal medullary, but not control tissue following nicotine stimulation.  This reduction was blocked by the opiate antagonist, naloxone, and partially attenuated by the alpha-adrenergic antagonist, phentolamine.  Together, these results suggest that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord may provide a local source of opioid peptides and catecholamines for the reduction of chronic pain.
Replacement of an aortic valve cusp after neonatal endocarditis.  Septic arthritis developed in a neonate after an infection of her hand.  Despite medical and surgical treatment endocarditis of her aortic valve developed and the resultant regurgitation required emergency surgery.  At operation a new valve cusp was fashioned from preserved calf pericardium.  Nine years later she was well and had full exercise tolerance with minimal aortic regurgitation.
An analysis of the effect of the Zielke operation on S-shaped curves in idiopathic scoliosis. A follow-up study revealing some skeletal and soft tissue factors involved in curve progression.  This article analyzes the fate of S-shaped idiopathic spinal curves during follow-up in 18 patients having the Zielke VDS operation.  The spinal radiographs were evaluated by Cobb angle, end-vertebra angles (EVAs), vertebral rotation, and by a new method using the tilt of the surgically fused spinal block in the frontal plane.  Spinal growth was measured.  Using the conventional criterion for Cobb angle progression, 83% of the lower curves and 50% of the upper curves progress.  The use of EVAs shows that progression occurs mainly in the middle (thoracolumbar) segment of the spine.  Curve progression occurs in the frontal plane without any significant change in vertebral rotation.  The progression of the upper curve Cobb angle is not related to the progression of the Cobb angle of the lower curve; but it is related to 1) tilt of the spinal block, 2) growth of the spine below the block and 3) overall linear spinal growth (T1-S1).  Progression of the upper EVA of the upper curve is associated with skeletal immaturity.  The key features leading to curve progression after the Zielke operation appear to be spinal asymmetry in the frontal plane, linear spinal growth, and concave lumbar muscle tether (myostatic contracture).  The surgical implications of the findings are outlined.
Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) of the shoulder: a cause of shoulder pain?  Shoulder pain is a common complaint and shoulder hyperostosis a frequent radiological condition.  However, little is known about the association between the clinical and radiological findings.  To evaluate the clinical relevance of shoulder hyperostosis we performed a controlled, blind study of 99 hospitalized probands with and without thoracospinal hyperostosis on lateral chest X-rays.  The study included grading of the shoulder hyperostosis on the basis of three bilateral standard radiographs, assessing shoulder pain in a standardized way by an interviewer and recording extraskeletal causes of shoulder pain.  The prevalence of shoulder hyperostosis was doubled in probands with thoracospinal hyperostosis compared to controls (chi 2 = 5.90, P less than 0.025, n = 99).  Shoulder hyperostosis, irrespective of thoracospinal hyperostosis, predisposed to shoulder pain (40% versus 18%, chi 2 = 4.06, P less than 0.05, n = 74).  Shoulder hyperostosis in combination with thoracospinal hyperostosis (shoulder DISH) predisposed to shoulder pain to an even greater extent (46% versus 12%, chi 2 = 6.64, P less than 0.01, n = 47).  We conclude that shoulder hyperostosis is a radiological finding of potential clinical relevance.
Outbreak of spontaneous staphylococcal arthritis and osteitis in mice.  Staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacterial species found in association with nongonococcal bacterial arthritis in humans.  We present here the first description of spontaneous bacterial arthritis and osteitis in mice.  Clinically, the most obvious findings were swelling and/or ankylosis of hindpaws and nodose changes of the tail.  The prevalence of arthritis and osteitis ranged from 0% to greater than 50% of the mice studied, depending on the mouse strain.  The most prominent histopathologic feature of the arthritis was hypertrophy of the synovial tissue and destruction of cartilage and underlying bone.  Most of the S aureus-infected mice displayed an identical phage type, which was also the only S aureus phage type found in skin isolates from clinically healthy mice.  However, a few S aureus isolates were not typeable, indicating that an additional strain(s) might cause bacterial arthritis in mice.
Clinical presentation of suspected malignant hyperthermia during anaesthesia in 402 probands.  As anaesthetists have become more aware of malignant hyperthermia the mortality rate has fallen, but concommitantly the number of dubious and aborted cases has increased.  All probands who developed a suspected malignant hyperthermia reaction during anaesthesia and subsequently underwent muscle biopsy were classified according to the clinical presentation.  A probability for malignant hyperthermia can be calculated, using the classification, for each type of clinical presentation; this varied from 0.96 to 0.07.  Certain clinical features were found to be of more value as predictors than others; these included a high creative kinase and myoglobinuria.  The accuracy of prediction depends on a clear contemporaneous description of the clinical events.
Radical osteoclastic craniectomy in sagittal synostosis   We report our experience in the surgical treatment of sagittal synostosis using radical osteoclastic craniectomy in 60 consecutive patients.  After surgery in children aged 6 months or younger (Group I), reossification usually started 2 weeks postoperatively and was complete within 6 months, resulting in an optimal skull contour.  In children aged 7 to 12 months (Group II), reossification was prolonged and lasted for 12 months or longer.  The skull contour normalized in its biparietal width and improved in sagittal diameter, remaining, however, slightly abnormal.  In children older than 12 months (Group III), the skull contour partly improved in the biparietal diameter but did not change in the sagittal direction.  Reossification was incomplete with persistent pseudosutures.  Enlarged frontal subarachnoid spaces were reversible or improved in all patients independent of age at the time of surgery.  We encountered no complications in our series.  In our opinion, radical osteoclastic craniectomy is the simplest, most efficient, and most physiologically sound method for the treatment of sagittal synostosis in patients up to 6 months of age.  This procedure allows the rapidly growing brain to form its skull vault, thus providing optimal cosmetic results.  In older children, osteoplastic morcellation procedures should be the treatment of choice.
Squamous cell carcinomas often produce more than a single bone resorption-stimulating factor: role of interleukin-1 alpha*.  Several cultured human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines (SCC-4, SCC-12B2, SCC-12F2, EC-GI-10, and BEN) and one normal keratinocyte line (Epy-1) were investigated for the production of bone resorption-stimulating activity (BRSA).  Conditioned medium (CM) from each of the six cell lines stimulated bone resorption in neonatal mouse calvariae in culture.  The BRSA of SCC-12F2 and EC-GI-10 was inhibited completely by antibody to interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), whereas the BRSA in CM from the BEN, SCC-4, SCC-12B2, and Epy-1 cell lines was only partially inhibited by anti-IL-1 alpha.  Addition of indomethacin to the calvarial cultures also partially inhibited the BRSA from EC-GI-10, SCC-4, SCC-12B2, and Epy-1 cells; the BRSA from BEN and SCC-12F2 cells was inhibited completely by indomethacin.  cAMP production by calvariae was determined after a 60-min incubation with CM.  CM from EC-GI-10, BEN, SCC-4, and Epy-1 stimulated cAMP production by bone.  Preincubation of CM from BEN, EC-GI-10, SCC-4, and Epy-1 cells with two antisera against PTH-related protein [PTHrP; one specific for two PTHrP-(1-141), the other recognizing both PTHrP-(1-40) and PTHrP-(1-141)] completely inhibited the cAMP-stimulating activity.  Using specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta, IL-1 alpha was measured in CM of the SCC-4, SCC-12B2, SCC-12F2, and Epy-1 cell lines.  IL-1 beta was undetectable (less than 0.1 ng/ml) in CM from all cell lines.  Our findings indicate that the BRSA secreted by SCC-12F2 cells can be accounted for largely or entirely by IL-1 alpha, while the activity produced by SCC-12B2 includes IL-1 alpha and another unknown factor(s).  The BRSA produced by EC-GI-10, BEN, SCC-4, and Epy-1 cells includes both IL-1 alpha and PTHrP.  We conclude that IL-1 alpha may be a more prevalent and biologically significant component of the BRSA produced by SCCs than previously recognized.
Biomechanical comparison of single- and double-pin fixation for acute slipped capital femoral epiphysis.  Biomechanics of pin fixation for acute slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) was studied in an in vitro immature canine model.  Acute SCFE were created in 24 paired femurs.  The paired specimens were pinned with either one or two pins and loaded to failure.  Strength and stiffness of the paired limbs were expressed as percentages of the loads necessary to create the initial SCFE in the intact specimen.  Strength and stiffness were equivalent statistically for the intact physis and the fractured physis fixed with two pins.  Single pinning was only 83% as strong and 78% as stiff as the intact physeal plate.  Double-pin fixation is recommended over single-pin fixation for acute SCFE.  These data, however, should not be extrapolated to the clinical situation of fixation for chronic SCFE.
Mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer.  Microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma.  Over 7 years, 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction, 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue, 7 for recurrent tumor, and 6 for other reasons [lymphangioma (1), infection (1), gunshot wound (1), and osteoradionecrosis (3)].  Primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9.  All repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula, 5 radial forearm, 3 fibula, 2 serratus, and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery.  Mandibular defects included the symphysis alone (7), symphysis and body (5), symphysis-body-ramus condyle (2), body or ramus (13), and bilateral body (1).  Fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses.  Eight received postoperative radiotherapy.  All patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination (28) and positive radionuclide scan (22 of 22).  Bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26.  One complete flap loss occurred at 14 days.  Complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis (3), orocutaneous fistula (3), plate exposure (1), donor site infection (3), fracture of reconstruction (1), and fracture of the radius (1).  Microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction--despite previous radiotherapy, infection, foreign body, or surgery--in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent.  Bony union, a healed wound, and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula, skin loss, or metal plate or bone exposure.
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. Recognition of a distinct clinicopathologic entity   The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a newly described disorder related to the ingestion of L-tryptophan-containing products.  Its presentation may mimic other disorders characterized by eosinophilia and muscle pain and/or weakness, but can be differentiated by certain characteristic laboratory and pathologic findings.  We report two such cases, describe their features, and review similar syndromes.
Cementless total joint arthroplasty prostheses with titanium-alloy articular surfaces. A human retrieval analysis.  Surgical implants of titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-4V) have been found to be susceptible to abrasive wear, resulting in the well-known phenomenon of metallosis.  In the presence of the acrylic debris generated by loose joint arthroplasty prostheses, this abrasive wear is greatly increased.  However, the bone loss seen in these cases has generally been presumed to be due to the osteolytic effects of particulate acrylic, not the alloy debris, which has generally been assumed to be biocompatible.  To examine the in vivo effects of titanium-alloy wear without the added presence of acrylic debris, a comprehensive analysis was made of cementless human joint arthroplasty prostheses with Ti-6Al-4V alloy surfaces articulating on ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE).  Specimens, including the prostheses, synovium, pseudocapsule and additional soft tissues, and periarticular bone, were retrieved from 22 hips and two knees.  Specimens were examined by histologic techniques, energy-dispersive X-ray analysis, and electron microscopy.  Serial sections of the implants were evaluated for tissue ingrowth.  Tissues surrounding all joints implanted more than one year showed some degree of discoloration indicative of metallosis, whereas after two years the synovium was hypertrophic and villiform.  Histologic evaluation showed good fixation by bony ingrowth in the vast majority of cases, although location and extent of ingrowth was dependent on numerous factors.  Viability of ingrowth bone was established by fluorochrome labeling.  However, despite good biologic fixation, cavitary osteolysis of the bone surrounding the implants was frequently identified.  These lesions were filled with sheets of aggressive macrophages within a matrix of fibrous tissue and necrotic debris.  Under polarized light the macrophages were found to be filled with alloy and polyethylene fragments of a characteristic size.  Osteoblast-mediated remodeling of bone was infrequently observed.  Instead, the bone was resorbed along a front in contact with the granulomatous tissues filling the cystic lesions.  Visible burnishing was observed on every articular surface, with a linear relationship between wear and time implanted.  By one year the surfaces were covered with a characteristic "scratch and gouge" pattern, similar on all sizes of femoral heads as well as the total knee prostheses.  This study demonstrates that the combination of Ti-6Al-4V alloy and UHMWPE, when used as a bearing surface combination in total joint arthroplasty prostheses, results in excessive wear of both metal and polymer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS).
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (L-tryptophan-associated neuromyopathy).  Histopathologic study of skeletal muscle biopsy in a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome following L-tryptophan use showed prominent lymphocytic perineuritis, neuritis, and perimysial fasciitis.  The presence of perineuritis and neuritis provides a histopathologic basis for clinical features of neuropathy in eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and occurred in conjunction with a fasciitis or interstitial myositis that was predominantly perimysial and focally endomysial.
Peroneal nerve palsy after total knee arthroplasty.  The prognosis for peroneal palsy after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is poorly defined.  Twenty-six postoperative peroneal palsies occurred after 8998 TKAs performed between 1972 and 1985.  Eighteen patients had complete and eight had incomplete peroneal palsies.  Twenty-three had both motor and sensory deficits, and three had only motor deficits.  At an average of 5.1 years (range, one to 11 years) after arthroplasty, recovery was complete for 13 palsies and partial for 12.  Complete recovery was more likely in those palsies that were incomplete initially.  Patients with palsies that were initially partial had significantly higher knee scores than those with complete palsies, and patients whose eventual recovery was complete had significantly higher knee scores than those with incomplete recovery.  This new prognostic information should be useful for surgeons who encounter this unfortunate yet persistent complication of TKA.
Evaluation of an electrogoniometric instrument for measurement of laxity of the knee.  Eight lower extremities from cadavera were tested for anterior-posterior laxity in two positions before and after transection of the anterior cruciate ligament.  At critical points in the tests, electrogoniometric and radiographic measurements of tibiofemoral translation were compared.  By direct measurement, we determined the accuracy of the radiographic method to +/- 0.4 millimeter (95 per cent) in measuring anterior-posterior translations of the tibia with respect to the femur.  The electrogoniometer estimated displacement of the tibia with respect to the femur during the anterior drawer test to be 3.5 +/- 8.2 millimeters at 90 degrees of flexion of the knee and 11.1 +/- 16.1 millimeters at 30 degrees of flexion.  Direct comparison of these measurements with those obtained by means of the radiographic technique showed that the electrogoniometer tended, on average, to overestimate the tibial translation.  The amount of overestimation was 0.7 millimeter for intact knees and 1.9 millimeters after sacrifice of the anterior cruciate ligament.  Despite this small average error in measurement of tibial translation, the difference between individual electrogoniometric and radiographic measurements varied greatly, with a 95 per cent confidence limit of +/- 5.5 millimeters.  The error of the electrogoniometric measurements varied with the angle of flexion of the knee during testing, both the accuracy and the reliability of the electrogoniometric measurements being greatly diminished at 30 degrees of flexion.  The electrogoniometric method also tended to overestimate tibial internal rotation (by an average of 10.5 degrees) and external rotation (by an average of 9.3 degrees); the reliability of these measurements was +/- 6.9 degrees.
Ultrasound-guided aspiration for transient synovitis of the hip.  We reviewed 15 children with transient synovitis of the hip who had aspiration of an effusion under local anaesthesia with ultrasound guidance.  There were no significant complications; aspiration was useful for diagnosis and gave considerable symptomatic relief.  We discuss the role of ultrasound in diagnosis and treatment.
Specificity of antibodies to type II collagen in rheumatoid arthritis.  To reassess the role of autoantibodies to type II collagen in the pathogenesis of diseases, we studied antibodies from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and from patients with relapsing polychondritis for species specificity and collagen type specificity, using an improved enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.  Antibodies were found in the sera of 15% of the RA patients and 50% of the relapsing polychondritis patients, as well as in the cartilage of 69% of the RA patients examined.  Reaction with both homologous and heterologous type II collagens was common.  Analysis of 19 selected RA sera revealed that autoantibodies were generally associated with specific antibodies to some species of heterologous type II collagen.  In contrast, antibodies found in 4% of the non-RA controls were specific for either bovine or chick type II collagen.  These findings indicate that autoantibody formation in RA and relapsing polychondritis may occur as a result of an immune response to heterologous type II collagen.  However, since RA and relapsing polychondritis patient sera differed in their reactivity with the cyanogen bromide-digested peptides, it is possible that the clinical manifestation of collagen autoimmunity might be influenced by the epitope specificity of the antibodies.
Calvarial sutural abnormalities: metopic synostosis and coronal deformation--an anatomic, three-dimensional radiographic, and pathologic study.  The purposes of this study were (1) to evaluate the histologic differences between synostotic versus deformational suture abnormalities and (2) to correlate these histologic findings with anatomic and three-dimensional computed tomographic (CT) scans.  We examined three infants with premature metopic synostosis; one infant also had microcephaly trisomy 13 and curious overriding of the coronal sutures.  The three-dimensional CT scans demonstrated obliteration of the metopic suture inferiorly.  Histologic sections of this suture showed complete bony stenosis.  The same pattern was found in all three infants, including the two infants with trigonocephaly who did not have trisomy 13 or microcephaly.  In the trisomy 13 infant, the overlapped inferior coronal suture was obliterated on CT examination.  However, histologic sections in this region showed a merging of bone; there was no synostosis.  In summary, three-dimensional CT re-formation correlated with metopic suture histology.  "Stenotic" fusion existed in all infants with trigonocephaly, those with normal and abnormal karyotypes, with and without microcephaly.  However, three-dimensional CT re-formation of the trisomic infant showed opacification of the coronal suture in the areas of greatest overlap, whereas histology revealed a curious bone remodeling pattern, possibly a precursor to "deformational" craniosynostosis.
Results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy.  The results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical, radiographic, and isokinetic strength-testing criteria.  Forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied.  In the extremity that had been operated on, the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent, the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent, and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity.  The over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients, good in eleven, fair in six, and poor in three.  There was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome.  The results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures.
Calcium absorption in bone disease associated with chronic cholestasis during childhood.  Fractional absorption of calcium was determined in 9 children aged 4.9 to 16.9 yr with chronic cholestatic liver disease to determine the role of calcium malabsorption in the development of metabolic bone disease.  Radiological evidence of rickets was absent in all patients, but bone density, measured by single beam photon absorptiometry of the distal radius, was reduced in eight of nine subjects.  Serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations were normal in all except one subject.  Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration was decreased compared with controls in only one of nine patients, but serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations were diminished in seven of nine subjects.  In all subjects, dietary calcium and phosphorus intakes were greater than 80% of the RDA.  Fractional absorption of calcium, determined by oral and intravenous administration of stable calcium isotopes, was similar in cholestatic compared with control subjects (37.1% +/- 12.5% vs.  34.0% +/- 16.4%).  In the cholestatic subjects, calcium absorption correlated with serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (r = 0.871, p less than 0.002) but not 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations.  Calcium balance, assessed by the duplicate diet method, was positive in four of five subjects.  Anthropometric measurements were performed to examine the relationship between nutritional status and bone mineral content.  Heights of all subjects were less than or equal to the 10th percentile and fat stores and somatic protein stores were less than the 25th percentile in six of nine subjects.  We conclude that factors other than calcium malabsorption and decreased serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration contribute to diminished bone mass in children with cholestatic liver disease.
Factors influencing the result of posterior spinal fusion in the treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.  Sixty-six consecutive patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis treated by posterior spinal fusion using Harrington distraction compression instrumentation were followed for a minimum of 3 years.  Initial surgical correction was satisfactory, but during the follow-up period, mean 4.4 years (3-5 years), there was a loss of correction.  Several factors (age, sex, the number of vertebrae in the fusions, and the use of cross wires) were important influences on correction.  A method of assessing the balance of a posterior spinal fusion is described that is useful when assessing radiographs.
Orbital intramuscular schwannoma.  In an 8-year-old girl with asymptomatic proptosis, computed tomographic scans showed a large medial orbital mass that contoured the globe anteriorly, bowed the optic nerve laterally, and extended posteriorly to the orbital apex.  T1-weighted coronal magnetic resonance images showed the mass to be a diffusely enlarged medial rectus muscle.  Histopathologic examination of a medial rectus muscle biopsy specimen disclosed a multinodular, intramuscular schwannoma, separating and infiltrating normal skeletal muscle fibers.  The intramuscular location and multinodular configuration of this tumor, together with its occurrence in a child, distinguish it from previous orbital schwannomas.
Total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years. A nine- to ten-year follow-up study.  Eighty-one cemented total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years were reviewed with an average 9.2-year follow-up interval.  The results were compared with the same group previously reported at an average follow-up time of 4.5 years.  Clinically satisfactory results were 58% compared with 78% at 4.5 years.  The revision rate almost tripled to 33%.  Impending failure was present in 56% of those hips not yet revised.  In the first study, technique was a primary determinant of success.  In this report there was no influence of technique on the incidence of revision.  Age did not influence revision rates either, with 35% in patients younger than 30 years and 32% in patients aged 30-45 years.  Patients younger than 30 years had fewer satisfactory clinical results and a higher rate of impending failure.  As in the first study, the best results were obtained in patients with inflammatory collagen disease aged from 30 to 45 years.
Effects of corticosteroids on mechanical strength of intervertebral joints and vertebrae in dogs.  Dogs with hyperadrenocorticism had a higher incidence of intervertebral joint disease, i.e., disc protrusion or spondylosis.  In comparing cases of hyperadrenocorticism with age- and breed-matched controls with hypothyroidism, the incidence was significantly greater than expected.  This was not seen, however, in beagle dogs in which the incidence was already high and attributed to chondrodystrophoid tendencies in this breed.  To investigate the pathogenesis of this association and its possible relationship to steroid-induced osteopenia, adult dogs were given a placebo, prednisone, or prednisone plus calcium for six months.  Torque testing of intervertebral joints revealed a consistent trend of lower force to failure in both prednisone-treated groups, but the difference was not statistically significant.  In these dogs with mild to moderate hyperadrenocorticism, compression tests of intact vertebral bodies were not significantly different, but blocks of trabecular bone cut from the vertebral bodies failed at significantly lower compressive forces in both prednisone-treated groups compared with controls.  Histomorphometric evaluation of lumbar vertebral trabecular bone revealed that the percentage of bone volume was not significantly decreased in the prednisone-treated groups.  Nor was there any difference in the thickness or porosity of vertebral end-plates, which might contribute to weakening of intervertebral ligamentous insertions.
Pheochromocytoma presenting as rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure.  We report the case of a previously healthy young woman who presented with the sudden onset of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric renal failure, requiring hemodialysis for 3 weeks.  Common causes of rhabdomyolysis were ruled out; as renal function returned, severe hypertension was noted and a pheochromocytoma was diagnosed.  We suggest that pheochromocytoma causes rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria via catecholamine-mediated vasoconstriction and skeletal muscle ischemia.
Vaccination with Legionella pneumophila membranes induces cell-mediated and protective immunity in a guinea pig model of Legionnaires' disease. Protective immunity independent of the major secretory protein of Legionella pneumophila.  We have examined the capacity of Legionella pneumophila membranes to induce cell-mediated immune responses and protective immunity in a guinea pig model of Legionnaires' disease.  Guinea pigs immunized by aerosol with L.  pneumophila membranes developed strong cell-mediated immune responses to L.  pneumophila membranes as demonstrated by cutaneous delayed-type hypersensitivity and in vitro splenic lymphocyte proliferation.  Guinea pigs immunized by aerosol or by subcutaneous inoculation with L.  pneumophila membranes developed strong protective immunity against lethal aerosol challenge with L.  pneumophila.  Overall, in six independent experiments, 39 of 49 (80%) guinea pigs immunized with L.  pneumophila membranes survived challenge compared with 2 of 40 (5%) sham-immunized controls (P = 2 x 10(-13).  In contrast, guinea pigs immunized by aerosol with formalin-killed L.  pneumophila did not develop either a strong cell-mediated immune response to L.  pneumophila antigens or protective immunity to lethal aerosol challenge.  The capacity of L.  pneumophila membranes to induce protective immunity was independent of the major secretory protein of L.  pneumophila, which we previously demonstrated is an immunoprotective molecule.  Purified L.  pneumophila membranes did not contain detectable major secretory protein (MSP) on immunoblots; immunization of guinea pigs with L.  pneumophila membranes did not induce anti-MSP antibody; and guinea pigs developed comparable protective immunity after immunization with membranes from either an L.  pneumophila strain that secretes the major secretory protein or an isogenic mutant that does not.  This study demonstrates that (a) immunization with L.  pneumophila membranes but not formalin-killed L.  pneumophila induces strong cell-mediated immune responses and protective immunity, (b) L.  pneumophila membranes contain immunoprotective molecules distinct from the major secretory protein of L.  pneumophila, and (c) L.  pneumophila membranes have potential as a vaccine against Legionnaires' disease.
Fungal burn wound infection. A 10-year experience.  To evaluate our experience with fungal burn wound infection, we performed a 10-year review for comparison with our experience with bacterial burn wound infection.  During the study period, a marked decline occurred in bacterial wound infection but not in fungal wound infection.  Patients with either bacterial or fungal burn wound infection had massive injury, with burn size averaging greater than 50% of the total body surface area.  Factors that appear to have markedly reduced bacterial burn wound infection, including patient isolation, topical chemotherapeutic agents, and burn wound excision, do not appear to have had a similar effect on fungal wound infection.  The mechanism of spread and colonization of fungi, and the lack of effective topical chemotherapeutic antifungal agents, may explain in part our findings.
Metabolic changes in patients severely affected by tetanus.  Metabolic changes in six severely affected tetanus patients suffering from characteristic labile hypertension (maximum systolic blood pressure greater than 200 mmHG, maximum diurnal change in systolic pressure greater than 100 mmHg) were investigated.  Daily urinary excretion of urea nitrogen increased gradually from the onset of opisthotonus, reached a peak value (10.4 to 15.4 g/m2) in 8 to 20 days, and decreased subsequently.  Average cumulative excretion in 30 days reached 239.6 +/- 32.7 g/m2.  Urine catecholamine excretion was elevated in each patient and remained elevated during this period.  Plasma cortisol and glucagon concentrations were not increased markedly except in a case complicated other systemic bacterial infection.  Increased protein catabolism in these patients could not be explained by the metabolic effects of 'stressed hormones' alone, and neurologic factors must be considered.
Role of tolerance in cloxacillin treatment of experimental Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis.  The role of Staphylococcus aureus tolerance was investigated in endocarditis in rats.  The efficacies of cloxacillin, gentamicin, and a combination of the two were compared for animals infected with a tolerant strain, its kill-sensitive variant, or a nonisogenic nontolerant strain of S.  aureus.  Cloxacillin was significantly less effective for treating the tolerant than for the nontolerant strains.  The addition of gentamicin to cloxacillin reduced bacterial numbers in endocardial vegetations for the tolerant strain comparable to the reduction by cloxacillin alone for the nontolerant strains, but had no additional effect for the nontolerant strains.  Isolates from animals infected with the tolerant or nontolerant strains during antibiotic treatment remained tolerant or nontolerant.  These results show that the in vitro phenomenon of tolerance is relevant in vivo.
Bull horn injuries.  Bull horn injury is not uncommon, and during a 12 year period from 1977 to 1988, 101 patients required inpatient treatment at the Christian Medical College Hospital, a teaching hospital at Vellore in South India.  The ages of these patients ranged from two years to 90 years and the male to female ratio was 4:1.  Sixty-one per cent of the injuries occurred either to the perineum or abdomen and wounds were directed obliquely upward.  Thirty-five per cent required extensive surgical intervention.  The over-all wound infection rate was 12.9 per cent.  Of wounds that were primarily closed, 42.9 per cent had wound infection, while only 6.3 per cent that were secondarily closed developed infection.  Two patients died as a consequence of the injury.  Based on the results of this study, we recommend that a careful evaluation of the injury and timely and appropriate management of each patient must be done to reduce morbidity and mortality.  Primary closure of wounds must be avoided even when surgical intervention is possible soon after injury.
Enumeration of clue cells in rehydrated air-dried vaginal wet smears for the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis.  Among 235 women attending an outpatient clinic, the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was made using three of the following four criteria: typical discharge, pH more than 4.5, positive amine sniff test, and clue cells in a wet smear.  These findings were correlated with the finding of clue cells in air-dried wet smears rehydrated more than 1 month after the visit.  The rehydrated specimens had the same microscopic appearance as a nonpreserved wet smear.  The demonstration of clue cells in the rehydrated smears correlated with the composite diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis with a sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 98%.  In a busy multi-physician setting, the scoring of clue cells in stored and rehydrated smears can be used to obtain consistent readings for wet-smear diagnostics, thus simplifying teaching and increasing the utility of wet smears in clinical research.
Relationship of transfusion and infectious complications after gastric carcinoma operations.  To determine the effect of transfusion on the incidence of postoperative infection, a retrospective cohort study of 196 patients who underwent surgery for gastric carcinoma in the period from 1985 through 1989 was carried out.  Seventy-one patients (36.2%) developed postoperative septic complications; they had received an average of 4.2 blood units, as compared with 2.7 units received by patients not affected (p less than 0.0053).  The hypothesis of dose-response relationship is supported by the Mantel-Haenszel test, as applied to the overall results (p less than 0.01) and the results grouped by duration of operation (p less than 0.02).  Furthermore, logistic regression analysis shows transfusion to be an independent risk factor in the incidence of infection (p less than 0.01), as are antibiotic prophylaxis (p less than 0.015), urinary tract catheterization (p less than 0.002), and the duration of surgery (p less than 0.027).  This significance is attained after adjustment for age, gender, period of evolution of symptoms; preoperative infection(s), number of white cells, hemoglobin level and total proteins on diagnosis, location of tumor, tumor, nodes, and metastasis staging, operative technique, drainage of the area of operation, enteral nutrition, and the histologic studies and macroscopic appearance of the tumor.  This study is further evidence that transfusion may cause an increased incidence of postoperative infection.
Effect of rifabutin on disseminated Mycobacterium avium infections in thymectomized, CD4 T-cell-deficient mice.  Disseminated Mycobacterium avium infection is the major cause of bacteremia in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  We present here a new animal model of this disease, thymectomized C57BL/6 mice that were intravenously infused with monoclonal antibody to selectively deplete CD4+ T cells.  The increased susceptibility of such animals to M.  avium infection is comparable to that of C57BL/6 beige mice and thus may provide a viable alternative to the latter model.  Further, using representative strains of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated M.  avium (serotypes 1, 4, and 8 and a rough isolate), we show that the course of such infections in thymectomized, CD4-deficient mice can be markedly restrained and in some cases the infections can be sterilized by treatment over a 120-day period with a regimen containing 40 mg of the new antimycobacterial agent rifabutin per kg (body weight).
Clinical and immunologic responses to Haemophilus influenzae type b-tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine in infants injected at 3, 5, 7, and 18 months of age.  The safety and immunogenicity of Haemophilus influenzae type b-tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine (Hib-TT) were evaluated in 77 healthy infants receiving injections at 3, 5, 7, and 18 months of age.  No serious local or systemic reactions were noted.  After the first injection the geometric mean Hib antibody level rose to 0.55 micrograms/ml, and each subsequent injection elicited a statistically significant rise in the geometric mean.  The percentage of vaccinees with Hib antibody levels greater than 0.15 micrograms/ml serum was 75.5% after the first, 97.4% after the second, and 100% after the third Hib-TT injection.  This percentage fell to 90.9% at 18 months of age but rose again to 100% after the fourth injection.  Control infants (n = 10) injected with diphtheria-tetanus toxoid-pertussis vaccine only had nondetectable levels after the second injection.  Hib-TT elicited increases of Hib antibody in all isotypes: IgG greater than IgM greater than IgA.  Among IgG subclasses the highest increases were of IgG1.  All vaccinated subjects had greater than 0.01 U/ml of TT antibody (estimated protective level) throughout the study.  We conclude that Hib-TT, injected at 3, 5, 7, and 18 months, is safe and induces protective levels of antibodies during the age of highest incidence of meningitis caused by Hib.
Pharmacokinetics and tissue penetration of a single dose of ornidazole (1,000 milligrams intravenously) for antibiotic prophylaxis in colorectal surgery.  Levels in serum and tissue penetration of ornidazole were studied after a single intravenous injection of 1,000 mg given to 14 patients for prophylaxis of surgical infection.  They were scheduled for elective colorectal surgery.  Adequate levels in blood (greater than or equal to MIC for 90% of Bacteroides fragilis strains tested) were found in all patients throughout the procedure and up to hour 24.  Mean-maximal (15 min) and last-determined (24 h) ornidazole levels in serum were 24 +/- 5.2 and 6.3 +/- 1.4 mg/liter, respectively.  beta-Phase elimination half-life was 14.1 +/- 2.7 h, and clearance and apparent volume of distribution were 47 +/- 12 ml/min and 0.9 +/- 0.13 liters/kg, respectively.  In all patient, adequate levels in tissue were found in the abdominal wall and the epiploic fat at time of incision and in the colonic wall at time of anastomosis.  At time of closure, all but one patient had adequate levels in tissue in the abdominal wall and the epiploic fat.  No anaerobic nor aerobic infection occurred in the study patients.
Drugs for treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis: comparative efficacy of agents and regimens.  Various agents are available for the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis.  Imidazole agents (clotrimazole, miconazole, butoconazole, and terconazole) are preferred because of their greater efficacy, shorter treatment regimens, and ease of administration.  Although the various imidazole compounds are equally efficacious, different treatment schedules are recommended depending on clinical situations.  Additionally, different formulations are available that provide clinicians and patients with the opportunity to select the most appropriate agent.
The effects of Chlamydia trachomatis on the female reproductive tract of the Macaca nemestrina after a single tubal challenge following repeated cervical inoculations.  The effects of repeated cervical infections followed by a single direct tubal inoculation with Chlamydia trachomatis, serovars D and F, were examined in 11 pig-tailed macaques to test the hypothesis that tubal inoculation after cervical priming causes a more severe disease than primary tubal inoculation alone.  Animals were cervically inoculated between two and five times.  Fallopian tubes were inoculated with serovar D or F 1 week after the last cervical challenge.  Three control monkeys received only one direct tubal inoculation without previous cervical inoculation.  Infection was confirmed by isolating the microorganism from the endocervix in 13 of 14 monkeys and from the endosalpinx in four only after the tubal inoculation.  Antibody was detected in post-infection sera of all 14.  Tubal edema occurred in seven of 11 animals after the first cervical inoculation, and uterine erythema occurred in 11 of 11 after the second cervical inoculation.  Peritubal adhesions were induced before the tubal inoculation in zero of seven given three or fewer cervical inoculations and four of four given five cervical inoculations (P less than .01).  After direct tubal inoculation, peritubal adhesions became more prominent, and the 11 hysterectomy specimens showed plasma cell endometritis in nine and salpingitis in nine.  Two control monkeys developed minor adhesions, the other none.  One tube in two of three controls showed mild plasma cell infiltrates, whereas no evidence of endometritis was observed in controls.  Histopathology in these monkeys was characteristic of chlamydial endometritis and salpingitis.  However, the pathogenesis of these changes is uncertain because C trachomatis was not isolated from the endosalpinx after cervical inoculations alone.
The neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders.  Care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery.  If the clinical picture cannot logically be explained by the radiologic findings, further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder.  Investigations may include electrophysiologic tests, transcranial magnetic stimulation, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).  Only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined.
Safety and immunogenicity of Haemophilus influenzae type b oligosaccharide-CRM197 conjugate vaccine in infants aged 15 to 23 months.  A total of 268 infants aged 15 to 23 months received one dose of a vaccine composed of Haemophilus influenzae type b oligosaccharides covalently linked to the nontoxic diphtheria toxin variant CRM197 (HbOC; HibTITER).  Side effects associated with vaccination were infrequent, transient, and mild.  One month after a single vaccination, the anti-H influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide antibody concentration rose from a geometric mean prevaccination level of 0.20 microgram/mL to 13.77 micrograms/mL.  Of these infants, 99% had a postvaccination level greater than or equal to 1.00 microgram/mL, a level associated with long-term protection.  The immune response was long-lived: all of the children who were monitored 17 to 27 months after vaccination had concentrations greater than or equal to 1.00 microgram/mL.  The anti-H influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide antibody generated was predominantly of the IgG isotype and IgG1 subclass.  The immune sera had bactericidal activity in vitro and conferred passive protection in the infant rat meningitis model.
Intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis: a combined institutional review.  Intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies.  The charts of all patients (n = 649) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the University of Minnesota Hospital and to the University of Michigan Medical Center during a 13-year period (1975 to 1988) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications.  The clinical presentation, bacteriology, involved sinuses, influencing host factors, white blood cell count on presentation, length of hospitalization, and postinterventional complications are presented.  Twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7%.  Aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality.  Intracranial complications included subdural empyema, frontal lobe abscesses, intrahemispheric abscesses, cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, and osteomyelitis.
Divergent efficacy of antibody to tumor necrosis factor-alpha in intravascular and peritonitis models of sepsis.  The role of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) in the lethal consequences of intravascular lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or Escherichia coli sepsis was compared with that in bacterial peritonitis.  Intravenous administration of E.  coli LPS or E.  coli (live or dead) resulted in large transient increases in serum TNF alpha levels, peaking at 90 min at 10,000-30,000 units/ml.  In contrast, the serum TNF alpha response following the induction of bacterial peritonitis was substantially less, peaking at 200-500 units/ml.  Sterile peritonitis (essentially nonlethal) and bacterial peritonitis (greater than 60% lethal) elevated TNF alpha levels to 1000-2000 units/lavage within the peritoneal cavity 2 h after challenge.  Passive immunization with neutralizing goat anti-TNF alpha IgG improved survival from 8% to 75% in rats administered LPS intravenously but was completely ineffective in protecting rats from lethal E.  coli peritonitis.  Thus significant differences exist in the role TNF alpha plays in systemic intravascular models of sepsis and bacterial peritonitis.
Germfree animals and technics in surgical research.  Germfree animals have been reared to a size, weight, and age permitting the performance of major surgical procedures and the pursuit of a variety of surgical research problems.  Germfree dogs have been maintained in the isolator system through three generations, indicating that life, reproduction, and growth are all possible in the absence of microbial contamination.  The value of the germfree approach to surgical problems has been utilized in studies of a variety of gastrointestinal problems, shock, cancer, immunology, burns, wound healing, and in direct patient application.  Patients have been maintained in isolator environments for prevention of infection, for operative procedures, for treatment of extensive burns, and for management of immune-suppressed individuals.  We conclude that germfree animals and germfree technics provide a valuable addition to the armamentarium of the surgeon in both research and clinical applications.
Ureaplasma urealyticum chronic osteomyelitis in a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia.  Mycoplasma species are recognized as important pathogens in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia.  In this article we describe, for the first time, a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia who developed osteomyelitis of the hip caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum.  This article emphasizes the need for considering infection with Mycoplasma species in patients with antibody deficiency.
High-protein ascites in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  Diseases of the liver or peritoneum resulting in ascites have been infrequently reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  Since 1985, eight noncirrhotic patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presenting with new onset high-protein ascites have been evaluated.  All but one patient had nondiagnostic paracentesis studies.  Laparoscopy with biopsy of identified abnormalities or percutaneous omental biopsy were diagnostic in four patients.  Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was the cause in three patients, and disseminated cryptococcosis occurred in one patient.  In the four other patients, chronic nonspecific peritonitis was found at laparoscopy; follow-up of these latter patients, including exploratory laparotomy in one patient and autopsy in two patients, disclosed no specific cause.  Patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and high-protein ascites of uncertain etiology should undergo directed peritoneal evaluation as a potentially treatable disorder may be found.  However, despite extensive evaluation, a subset of patients in whom no specific cause can be identified still remains.
Neutrophil function and pyogenic infections in bone marrow transplant recipients.  In a consecutive entry trial, the incidence and time course of decreased neutrophil function was assessed in 20 patients treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT).  The aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of low neutrophil function for late pyogenic infections.  Chemotaxis, superoxide production, and phagocytic-bactericidal activity were studied before and 2, 6, 9, and 12 months after BMT.  Skin window migration was quantitatively assessed 2 months after BMT.  Infectious complications were recorded prospectively with preset criteria during 1 year.  Six of the 20 leukemic patients had defective neutrophil function before BMT.  Two months after BMT all 10 patients with greater than stage II graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and 6 of 10 patients with less than or equal to stage II GVHD had at least one decreased function.  At this time, patients with subsequent pyogenic infections had lower chemotaxis (P less than .05), phagocytic-bactericidal activity (P less than .005), and superoxide production (P less than .025) than those without.  Defective skin window migration and combined defects were predictive for late pyogenic infections.  At 9 months all tests were normal in seven patients surviving without GVHD.  In contrast, at 9 months three of three patients, and at 1 year two of three with chronic GVHD had still decreased neutrophil function.  In conclusion, neutrophil function is frequently impaired during the first months after BMT.  Combined neutrophil defects predispose to pyogenic infections and indicate the patient at risk.
Prevalence of Chlamydia trachomatis infection in women having cervical smear tests   OBJECTIVE--To determine the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases in patients with normal and abnormal cervical smears.  DESIGN--A prospective study of asymptomatic women with normal cervical smears attending their general practitioner and newly referred patients with abnormal smears attending a colposcopy clinic.  SETTING--A hospital based colposcopy clinic and an urban general practice (list size 5500) in north west Glasgow.  SUBJECTS--197 asymptomatic women attending their general practitioner for cervical smear tests and 101 randomly selected patients attending the colposcopy clinic for investigation of abnormal smears.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Presence of various sexually transmitted infections as determined by culture and serological tests.  RESULTS--Of the 101 women with cytological abnormalities, six had current chlamydial infection proved by culture and none had gonococcal infection; of the 197 women with normal smears, 24 (12%) had a chlamydial infection and two had gonorrhoea.  Serological studies for Chlamydia trachomatis specific antibody also indicated that a large proportion of patients had been exposed to this agent in both groups.  There was no significant difference between the groups in the prevalence of any sexually transmitted disease studied.  CONCLUSION--A high prevalence of chlamydial infection is present in women in north west Glasgow irrespective of their cervical cytological state.
The epidemiologic features of nosocomial infections in patients with trauma.  Sepsis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with trauma.  To elucidate factors that might lead to infection, we studied the epidemiologic characteristics of nosocomial infections in our patient population with trauma.  During a 3.5-year period, 2496 patients were entered into our hospital trauma registry and cross-matched with hospital infection control surveillance information.  Two hundred twenty-nine patients with trauma and nosocomial infections were identified (9.2%), a figure that was nearly twice the nosocomial infection rate for the general hospital population.  The majority of those infected were either orthopedic (51%), general surgical (25%), or neurosurgical (13%) patients.  The most common sites of first infection were urinary tract (61%) or respiratory system (14%).  Patients developing nosocomial infections were significantly older and had a higher Injury Severity Score than those who did not.  Injury site was related to risk of infection with injuries of the spine, chest, and extremity showing the most significant relationship.  The length of stay as well as hospital charges were significantly related to the occurrence of infectious complications.  By determining the patient with trauma at risk for infection, treatment strategies can be designed to minimize septic complications.
Dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia.  Incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention.  A case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia.
Epidemiology, natural history, and management of urinary tract infections in pregnancy.  The urinary tract undergoes profound physiologic and anatomic changes during pregnancy that facilitate the development of symptomatic UTIs in women with bacteriuria.  Although the adverse effects of asymptomatic bacteriuria on maternal and fetal health continue to be debated, it is clear that asymptomatic bacteriuria is the major risk factor for developing symptomatic UTI and that symptomatic infections are associated with significant maternal and fetal risks.  Because the majority of symptomatic UTIs develop in women with bacteriuria earlier in pregnancy, treatment of bacteriuria is undertaken to prevent symptomatic infections.  All women should be screened at the first antenatal visit, which is reliably and inexpensively done with a dipstick culture.  Short-course therapy is as effective as prolonged therapy and should be followed with a repeat culture to document clearing of the bacteriuria.  Failure to eliminate bacteriuria with repeated therapy or recurrence with the same organism is indicative of renal parenchymal infection or a structural abnormality.  All women with persistent bacteriuria or recurrent infection should have follow-up cultures and a complete urologic evaluation after delivery.
Late cholangitis after successful surgical repair of biliary atresia.  Bacterial cholangitis is a frequent complication of successful surgical repair of biliary atresia, occurring in 93% of patients before the age of 1 year, but thought to be rare after 2 years of age.  Among 76 children free of jaundice more than 5 years after operation, four presented with late cholangitis (7 to 13.5 years old), consisting of fever, jaundice, and abdominal pain with biochemical features of an inflammatory process and cholestasis.  Liver biopsy specimens consistently demonstrated histological features of cholangitis, growth of microorganism, or both.  Cholangitis subsided spontaneously in one patient or in response to intravenous administration of antibiotics.  Cholangiography consistently demonstrated biliary abnormalities but no definite obstruction to the bilioenteric anastomosis.  All the children had good hepatic function 3 weeks to 4 years after the episode of cholangitis.  These results suggest that cholangitis may occur several years after surgery but does not seem to alter prognosis.
Radiology of renal infection.  Radiology plays a key role in the diagnosis and treatment of renal inflammatory diseases.  The efficacious use of the various imaging modalities in evaluating renal inflammatory disease requires knowledge of their attributes as well as their weaknesses.  We review the available studies and use of contrast agents, and illustrate radiologic findings in specific inflammatory disease processes.
Infectious skin diseases.  Descriptions of individual diseases, including impetigo, scarlet fever, and toxic shock syndrome, are presented in the context of the specific organisms that cause them.  Pictures are used to show some of the diseases.  Testing and treatment information for these diseases are included.
Therapy of pulmonary nocardiosis in immunocompromised mice.  We compared the bactericidal efficacies of various antimicrobial agents and combinations thereof in experimentally induced Nocardia asteroides pneumonia in immunocompromised mice.  Cortisone acetate treatment, which produced impaired cell-mediated immune function, was followed by nasal inoculation of 5 x 10(4) CFU of N.  asteroides into each mouse.  Therapy was begun 24 h after inoculation and continued for the next 96 h.  Dosages of antimicrobial agents resulted in concentrations approximating levels in human serum.  Animals from each of nine treatment groups were sacrificed every 24 h.  The pulmonary tissue obtained was homogenized and quantitatively cultured.  Results were calculated to indicate the number of CFU per gram of lung tissue.  Amikacin and imipenem were the two most effective single agents studied.  Sulfadiazine and ciprofloxacin were ineffective, and ceftriaxone reduced bacterial counts modestly.  Combination therapy did not enhance the bactericidal activities of the agents tested.  We conclude that amikacin and imipenem, as well as select broad-spectrum cephalosporins, represent therapy superior to the sulfonamides in this experimental model and may represent alternative treatment for patients who cannot tolerate sulfa agents (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients) or who fail primary treatment.
Studies of the route, magnitude, and time course of bacterial translocation in a model of systemic inflammation.  Bacteria have been documented to translocate from the gut to systemic organs, yet the exact route by which they translocate remains unclear.  To determine the route of bacterial translocation, different dosages of zymosan were used to activate complement and cause systemic inflammation.  At a zymosan dose of 0.1 mg/g, bacteria translocated only to the mesenteric lymph node complex, whereas at a dose of 0.5 mg/g the bacteria translocated systematically.  In rats receiving 0.5-mg/g doses of zymosan, the bacteria appeared to reach systemic organs via the portal blood rather than via the mesenteric lymph, as bacteria were present in 87% of portal blood samples but only 25% of lymph samples.  The number of bacteria exiting the portal vein was 11,500 times greater than the number exiting via the lymph.  Thus, both the route and extent of bacterial translocation varies based on the magnitude of the inflammatory insult, with the portal blood being the major route of bacterial translocation to systemic organs.
The catheter and urinary tract infection.  Catheter-associated bacteriuria is the most common infection acquired in hospitals and nursing homes.  This infection would be even more common but for the use of the closed catheter system.  Most modifications have not improved upon the closed catheter itself.  However, even with meticulous care, this system will not prevent bacteriuria forever.  After bacteriuria develops, our ability to limit its complications is minimal.  Additionally, the catheterized urinary tract becomes a reservoir of bacteria that can be transferred to other patients.  Once a catheter is put in place, one must keep two important concepts in mind: (1) keep the catheter system closed in order to postpone the onset of bacteriuria; and (2) remove the catheter as soon as possible.  If the catheter can be removed before bacteriuria develops, postponement becomes prevention.  However, the best prevention is not to use a urethral catheter at all.  Non-device alternatives to urethral catheterization should be used whenever possible.  If these are not useful or successful, then other devices might be considered.  For incontinent men, a condom catheter is a useful alternative.  For patients with urinary retention, intermittent or suprapubic catheterization may be options for both short-term and long-term needs.  The roles of these alternatives to urethral catheters must be defined by controlled trials.
The human antibody response to streptococcal C5a peptidase.  An ELISA was developed to measure antibody, both IgG and IgA, against the streptococcal C5a peptidase (SCP), in human sera and saliva.  Generally, sera and saliva from young, uninfected children lacked antibody to SCP.  In contrast, most sera and saliva specimens from healthy adults had measurable levels of anti-SCP IgG and SCP-specific secretory IgA (anti-SCP sIgA).  Paired acute and convalescent sera from patients with streptococcal pharyngitis possessed significantly higher levels of anti-SCP IgG than did sera from healthy individuals.  Sera containing high concentrations of anti-SCP immunoglobulin were capable of neutralizing SCP activity.  A survey of healthy adults and children also showed that the latter were significantly less likely to have anti-SCP sIgA in their saliva.  Detection of this antibody in greater than 90% of the saliva specimens obtained from children who had recently experienced streptococcal pharyngitis demonstrated that children can produce a secretory response.  This is thought to be the first report of a secretory IgA response in humans to a somatic antigen of Streptococcus pyogenes.
Gastrointestinal function and structure in HIV-positive patients.  We examined 19 patients (17 men) with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and gastrointestinal symptoms to determine whether those symptoms were due to either a gastrointestinal tract infection or a defect in mucosal absorption because of an enteropathy.  The erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin B12 levels were within normal limits in all of the patients.  The serum ferritin level was elevated in 12.  The xylose absorption test results were abnormal in 8 of the 13 patients able to complete the study.  None of the duodenal aspirates yielded a pathogen.  Light microscopy revealed nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation without infection in the stomach (in seven patients), the esophagus (in five), the duodenum (in two) and the rectum (in two).  However, biopsy specimens were positive for Candida albicans in the esophagus (four patients), cytomegalovirus in the esophagus (one) and the rectum (two), Helicobacter pylori in the antrum (two), Treponema infection in the rectum (two) and Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in the small intestine (one).  Only three patients had a normal series of biopsy specimens.  All of the patients had similar ultrastructural changes at the epithelial-stromal junction of the antral glands and in the intestinal crypts.  We conclude that abnormal biochemical and endoscopic findings are common in HIV-positive patients with gastrointestinal symptoms.  Defects in carbohydrate absorption and ultrastructural changes may be responsible for some aspects of HIV enteropathy.
Septic hip in pelvic fracture with urologic trauma: case report.  Urologic injuries occur in 10% of pelvic fractures and hip sepsis is a rare complication.  The symptoms of a septic hip are often not as dramatic when found in the setting of an acute pelvic fracture and may be overlooked.  A case is presented with a review of the literature.  Early recognition and aggressive surgical debridement are important to prevent the long-term sequelae of septic arthritis.
Rhodococcus infection of the skin with lymphadenitis in a nonimmunocompromised girl.  A 7-year-old girl had a 4 X 3 X 3 cm nodule on the left wrist with axillary lymphadenopathy.  Acid-fast bacilli were seen on a smear from a biopsy specimen of this granulomatous skin lesion.  A Rhodococcus species grew on culture.  Skin infections caused by Rhodococcus may be more common than the few prior case reports suggest.
Clostridium difficile--a common and costly colitis.  Clostridium difficile infection manifests as a self-limiting diarrhea, protracted colitis, or toxic pseudomembranous colitis.  The incidence of C.  difficile in a 514-bed community hospital was studied retrospectively; 155 patients of a total 18,262 admitted during 1988 were identified with C.  difficile as an admitting or subsequent diagnosis.  The method of diagnosis, mode of therapy, and related costs were analyzed.  We have determined that education, with an emphasis on pathogenesis and prevention, is necessary to reduce the incidence in the hospital and the cost to the patient.
Tumor necrosis factor-independent IL-6 production during murine listeriosis.  We report that TNF, IL-6, and IFN-alpha/beta are produced by mice during either sublethal or lethal Listeria monocytogenes infections.  The quantities of these cytokines in infected spleens increase and decrease in concordance with bacterial numbers in these organs.  While all of these cytokines were present in Listeria-infected spleens, only IL-6 and IFN-alpha/beta were found in the peripheral circulation.  Inasmuch as TNF has been reported to be responsible for the production of IL-6 in vivo following the inoculation of a lethal dose of the Gram-negative bacterium, Escherichia coli (Fong et al., 1989.  J.  Exp.  Med.  170: 1627), experiments were undertaken to determine whether IL-6 production elicited by the Gram-positive bacterium, L.  monocytogenes, was also TNF-dependent.  It was found that the passive immunization of mice with neutralizing antibodies specific for TNF shortly before i.v.  injection of a lethal or sublethal Listeria inoculum resulted in the complete neutralization of endogenously produced TNF, and in the progressive multiplication of bacteria in infected organs.  It was also found that the anti-TNF IgG treatment resulted in a progressive increase in the amounts of Listeria-induced IL-6 present in spleen and blood, until the death of the host.  These findings indicate that Listeria-induced IL-6 production in mice occurs primarily through a TNF-independent pathway, and correlates directly with the severity of the infection.
Nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in AIDS patients.  OBJECTIVE--To describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after June 1989.  SETTING--A department of infectious diseases in Copenhagen, seeing about half the patients with AIDS in Denmark.  SUBJECTS--73 HIV antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak (20 June-14 August), of whom 18 (17 with AIDS, one with AIDS related complex), developed cryptosporidiosis.  Two further HIV negative subjects (one departmental secretary, one visiting relative) developed cryptosporidiosis.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Cryptosporidia in stool samples, clinical symptoms, CD4 cell count, HIV antigen concentration, chemotherapeutic treatment.  RESULTS--The source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward, contaminated by an incontinent, psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks.  The mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is, twice that in HIV-negative patients.  Of the 18 patients with AIDS who developed cryptosporidiosis, five recovered, two were symptomless carriers, three died of unrelated causes, and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea.  Among the 57 exposed HIV antibody positive inpatients (excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere), significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not (91%, 10/11 v 48%, 21/44, p less than 0.05).  CONCLUSIONS--The clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula.  Increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with AIDS.
Prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia. A report of sixteen cases.  The results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee (total replacement arthroplasty) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed.  The diagnosis was stage-IIB osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients, stage-IIB malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients, and stage-IB sarcoma of various types in four patients.  The length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters.  Of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination (mean duration of follow-up, sixty-three months), three patients had an excellent result, seven had a good result, and one had a fair result.  Of the five patients who were not available for functional testing, one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months, one had died of metastases at sixteen months, and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis.
Endophthalmitis from contaminated donor corneas following penetrating keratoplasty.  We encountered six (0.2%) cases of endophthalmitis resulting from contaminated donor corneas between January 1983 and July 1990 following a total of 3000 consecutive penetrating keratoplasties.  Causative organisms in the three cases of fungal endophthalmitis were Torulopsis glabrata, Candida albicans, and Aspergillus flavus; the three cases of bacterial endophthalmitis were due to Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, and Enterococcus faecalis.  All organisms were resistant to gentamicin in the preservation media.  A significantly higher incidence of endophthalmitis was noted in patients receiving corneas from a Sri Lankan eye bank (1.25%) than in those receiving US eye bank tissue (0.14%).  Donor rim cultures are important to identify those patients at increased risk of developing endophthalmitis, enabling earlier diagnosis and more specific treatment should endophthalmitis occur.
Splenectomy does not influence outcome of pneumococcal septicemia in a porcine model.  The existence of the overwhelming postsplenectomy infection syndrome in adults after traumatic splenectomy is controversial.  Due to the similarity of the porcine immune system to man we chose the pig to study subsets of peripheral mononuclear cells after splenectomy and resistance to experimental Pneumococcal infection after splenic surgery and specific immunization.  Female miniature pigs were assigned to four operative groups: sham operation, splenectomy, splenic resection, and heterotopic splenic autotransplantation.  Hematologic and flow cytometric analysis of mononuclear cells and their subsets revealed a marked leukocytosis following splenectomy and autotransplantation but no significant shift in monocyte and B-cell numbers.  Response of leukocytes to septicemia, bacterial elimination from peripheral blood, and mortality were not affected by splenectomy or spleen-preserving operations.  Mortality of splenectomized animals was 18%, compared to 42% in sham-operated controls (difference not significant).  Immunization protected animals from development of leukopenia, and led to an enhanced bacterial elimination, and a significantly decreased mortality of 5%, compared to 48% in nonimmune animals.  Thus our data do not show significant effects of splenectomy on subsets of porcine mononuclear cells or on resistance to experimental Pneumococcal septicemia.
Intracranial bullet migration--a sign of brain abscess: case report.  An unusual case of migration of an intracranial bullet fragment within a brain abscess is reported.  Movement of the bullet was first detected on skull films, and the significance of this finding on plain radiographs is emphasized.
Purulent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade caused by Nocardia asteroides in mixed connective tissue disease.  Pericardial nocardiosis is extremely rare, but may affect especially immunocompromised hosts.  We describe the first reported case of purulent pericarditis with cardiac tamponade as the initial presentation of systemic nocardiosis in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease.  Our case emphasizes the importance of identifying infectious causes of pericarditis in patients with connective tissue diseases.  Longterm survival was achieved with a combined medical and surgical approach.
Hemodialysis for acute renal failure in patients with hematologic malignancies.  OBJECTIVE: To assess the prognosis of patients with hematologic malignancies in acute renal failure who require hemodialysis.  DESIGN: Retrospective study.  SETTING: ICU.  PATIENTS: Forty-three consecutive patients.  METHODS: Prognostic analysis using both univariate and multivariate (stepwise regression) methods.  RESULTS: Fifteen (35%) patients recovered from acute renal failure and 12 (28%) were discharged from the ICU.  The prognosis of patients with acute renal failure linked to sepsis is poorer than the prognosis of the patients with acute renal failure from other etiologies.  Only one patient survived in the former group (n = 26) and 11 in the latter group (n = 17); p less than .0001 in multivariate analysis.  When accompanied by associated respiratory failure, mortality rate was higher (93% vs.  33%; p less than .0001).  The Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS) calculated within the first 24 hr of admission was significantly (p less than .001) related to mortality when the SAPS was greater than or equal to 13.  The presence of neutropenia and the type of hematologic malignancy were not related to a worse prognosis.  Tolerance to hemodialysis appeared good, and complications were rare.
Retained intraocular foreign bodies and endophthalmitis.  Retained intraocular foreign bodies (IOFBs) are associated with endophthalmitis in approximately 7 to 13% of cases.  The role of prompt surgical removal of the foreign body along with the use of intravitreal antibiotics in reducing this figure is uncertain.  Retained IOFBs presenting to The Medical College of Wisconsin between July 1986 and June 1989 were reviewed.  A total of 27 cases were evaluated and surgically treated.  None of the 27 cases presented with or developed clinical signs of endophthalmitis, yet bacterial cultures of the removed intraocular material were positive in seven cases (foreign body in 5 cases, the aqueous fluid and the vitreous fluid in 1 case each).  All eyes presenting within 24 hours of injury underwent immediate surgery (average, 4.5 hours after presentation).  Of the seven eyes with positive intraocular cultures, all had pars plana vitrectomy removal of the IOFB and three of these eyes received intravitreal antibiotics at the time of surgery over concern of a high risk of infection.  Two of these eyes eventually grew out the Bacillus sp.  All eyes received subconjunctival antibiotics and postoperative topical and systemic antibiotics.  Even after the positive cultures, no signs of clinical infection developed in any of the eyes.  All seven eyes retained excellent visual acuity of 20/70 or better at an average of 10 months' follow-up.  Follow-up ranged from 1 to 31 months.  Prompt surgical intervention, the use of intravitreal antibiotics in high-risk-type injuries, and the possible use of vitrectomy surgery may reduce the incidence and severity of endophthalmitis.
Hemochromatosis and infection: alcohol and iron, oysters and sepsis.  Hemochromatosis, or primary iron overload, is a variably expressed genetic metabolic disorder greatly modified by sex, age, diet, and alcohol consumption.  Although a diagnosis has been made at the bedside by careful documentation of the slow resolution of subcutaneous iron pigment, clinical diagnosis is frequently overlooked, and even autopsy may fail to reveal hemochromatosis as the cause for cirrhosis.  Genetic linkage studies have confirmed the extremely high prevalence of this disorder.  Untreated patients may succumb to sepsis caused by organisms such as Vibrio vulnificus, Yersinia species, and others whose virulence is altered by iron availability.
Endothelin immunoreactivity in mice with gram-negative bacteraemia: relationship to tumour necrosis factor-alpha.  1.  To investigate the role of endothelin in Gram-negative bacteraemia and the possible involvement of tumour necrosis factor-alpha in its pathophysiology, we measured plasma and tissue (lung, kidney and spleen) immunoreactive endothelin levels in Gram-negative bacteraemic mice, with and without passive immunization by anti-(tumour necrosis factor-alpha) antibody.  2.  Plasma immunoreactive endothelin levels were greatly increased after the Escherichia coli injection.  Pretreatment with anti-(tumour necrosis factor-alpha) antibody did not suppress elevated plasma immunoreactive endothelin levels (P greater than 0.1).  3.  Lung tissue immunoreactive endothelin levels in mice were increased 16 h after the E.  coli injection and were not affected by prior passive immunization with anti-(tumour necrosis factor-alpha) antibody.  Immunoreactive endothelin in spleen and kidney was undetectable (less than 34 fmol/g wet weight).  4.  Injection of rMu tumour necrosis factor-alpha into mice did not increase plasma immunoreactive endothelin levels.  5.  Antibody to endothelin given 30 min after a 90% lethal dose challenge with E.  coli did not affect mortality.  6.  We conclude that the rise in plasma and tissue endothelin that occurs in Gram-negative bacteraemia is independent of tumour necrosis factor-alpha.
Definitions, classification, and clinical presentation of urinary tract infections.  Urinary tract infections encompass a spectrum of clinical and pathologic conditions involving various parts of the urinary tract.  Each syndrome has its own unique epidemiology, natural history, and clinical manifestations.  Basic terminology used in describing urinary tract infections is defined in this article.  A classification of these infections and their clinical features is presented.
Bacteremia with otitis media.  To investigate the occurrence and outcome of bacteremia associated with otitis media, charts were reviewed from patients who were 3 to 36 months of age, had temperatures greater than or equal to 39 degrees C, and were diagnosed with isolated clinical otitis media.  A total of 2982 patients were identified.  Blood cultures were obtained from 1666 (56%).  Of the 1666 patients, who had blood drawn for cultures, 50 (3.0%) had bacteremia.  These included 39 with Streptococcus pneumoniae, 4 with Haemophilus influenzae, 2 with Neisseria meningitidis, 3 with Salmonella species, and 2 with Staphylococcus aureus.  The incidence of bacteremia increased at higher temperatures, being 1.9% at temperatures less than or equal to 40 degrees C and 5.0% at temperatures greater than 40 degrees C.  Younger children were more likely to have bacteremia; 3.7% less than or equal to 12 months of age, 2.4% 13 to 24 months of age, and 1.9% 25 to 36 months of age had blood culture results that were positive (not significant).  Reevaluation of the 50 bacteremic patients showed that 9 patients had continued fever, 3 patients had persistent bacteremia, pneumonia developed in 1 patient, and meningitis developed in 1 patient.  It was concluded that (1) 3% of young febrile children with otitis media have bacteremia at the time of evaluation, a rate comparable to that previously reported in children with no focus of infection; (2) the incidence of bacteremia increases at higher temperatures; and (3) most febrile children with otitis media do well.  The clinician must therefore weigh the potential benefit of drawing a blood culture to identify children at risk for complications against the inherent cost, inconvenience, and discomfort.
The intracolonic bypass tube for left colon and rectal trauma. The avoidance of a colostomy.  Traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum are most frequently managed by procedures that include the formation of a colostomy.  Primary repair without colostomy is much less commonly employed.  We report nine patients with traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum treated with the intracolonic bypass tube (ICBT) without concomitant colostomy.  In all these patients we believe the standard treatment would have included fecal diversion.  Four patients sustained blunt trauma and five sustained penetrating trauma.  Healing of the colonic anastomosis occurred in all cases, and the ICBTs were passed per rectum between the tenth and nineteenth days postoperatively.  On the basis of this study, we conclude that the ICBT has a role in the treatment of selected injuries of the left colon and rectum as a safe means of avoiding a colostomy.
Choroidal lesions in patients with AIDS.  Seven cases of bilateral, scattered, yellow-white choroidal lesions have been seen in AIDS patients since January 1988.  One resulted from presumed extension of cryptococcal meningitis into the optic nerve and choroid.  All the remaining six patients had pneumocystis pneumonia at some time during the course of the disease and were receiving aerosolised pentamidine therapy.  None died quickly of disseminated Pneumocystis carinii infection, unlike previously reported patients.  Mycobacterial infection was also present in five of these six patients.  The differential diagnosis of this entity in AIDS patients is discussed.
Pyogenic spinal sepsis in adults.  Twenty adult patients presented with bacteriologically and histologically proven nontuberculous spinal sepsis.  Thirteen patients presented with varying degrees of neurologic impairment.  All patients underwent spinal decompression; in 11 this was combined with an anterior fusion using autogenous tricortical iliac grafts.  All patients have recovered and are ambulatory, and no patient's disorder was made worse by surgery.  Twenty-three separate organisms were cultured, only five of which were Staphylococcus.  The antibiotic courses were shorter and pain relief more rapid with anterior fusion.  All anterior bone grafts incorporated rapidly, and there was no progression of kyphosis or sequestration of grafts, regardless of organisms or level.  The rational treatment of adult spinal sepsis necessitates the securing of tissue from the spine for histologic and bacteriologic examination.  Pain relief, stabilization, and neural decompression can best be achieved with anterior decompression and fusion.  Autogenous iliac crest grafts incorporate in the presence of sepsis.
Early antibiotic treatment of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections: clinical and serological study.  OBJECTIVE--To find out whether a 10-14 days' course of antibiotics early in the course of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections could reduce the severity and duration of the disease and whether the antibody response in patients with reactive arthritis associated with yersinia infection differed between those treated and those not treated with the antibiotics.  DESIGN--Prospective multicentre trial in which patients were randomised to treatment or no treatment with antibiotics.  Patients were seen at three and six weeks and three, six, nine, 12, and 18 months after their first visit.  SETTING--Departments of infectious diseases in three hospitals in Linkoping, Malmo, and Stockholm, Sweden.  PATIENTS--40 Consecutive patients who had had symptoms of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection for less than four weeks.  INTERVENTIONS--20 Patients were allocated to treatment with antibiotics and 20 patients did not receive antibiotics.  All patients received non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and four also received intra-articular steroid injections after at least six weeks' observation.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Arthritic symptoms assessed clinically and by using Ritchies' index; blood measurements reflecting inflammatory activity; serum IgG, IgM, and IgA antibody titres; HLA tissue type.  RESULTS--No difference was observed concerning duration of arthritis, grade of inflammation, and number of joints affected between patients treated and those not treated with antibiotics.  Furthermore, there was no significant difference between the two groups in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and haptoglobin, IgG, and IgA concentrations.  All values had returned to normal within three months.  No patient developed chronic arthritis, but sustained slight arthralgia occurred in three patients.  The HLA-B27 antigen was found in 23 (58%) of the patients, and its presence did not affect clinical outcome.  The IgG, IgM, and IgA antibody responses were similar in patients treated with antibiotics and those not treated.  CONCLUSION--Short term antibiotic treatment has no beneficial effect on the clinical outcome of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection.
Aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.  A 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss, pain, and redness in her right eye.  Results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative.  Neurologic problems, bronchopulmonary pneumonia, recurrent skin lesions, and a low-grade fever developed.  Progressive respiratory distress ensued, and the patient died 1 month after presentation.  Cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for Aspergillus terreus.  Postmortem histologic results showed extensive A terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous, retina, choroid, and anterior optic nerve.  This organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland, left kidney, thyroid, urinary bladder, right lung, skin, esophagus, sputum, vessels of the myocardium, and brain.  To our knowledge, A terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously.
Cephalosporins: rationale for clinical use.  Cephalosporins, the most widely used class of antibiotics, are more resistant than penicillins to inactivation by beta-lactamases.  Based on their spectrum of activity against gram-negative bacteria, cephalosporins are classified into three generations.  The generation classification, however, does not correlate with activity against gram-positive bacteria or anaerobes.  First-generation cephalosporins have a narrow gram-negative spectrum but are most active against gram-positive bacteria, particularly Staphylococcus aureus.  Third-generation compounds have excellent activity against gram-negative bacteria.  The cephamycins, a second-generation subgroup that includes cefoxitin, cefotetan and cefmetazole, have the best activity against anaerobes.
Pupil cycle time and early autonomic involvement in ocular leprosy.  Ocular complications of leprosy patients often develop insidiously and with few if any symptoms.  This study involves measurement of the pupil cycle time (PCT) to evaluate the autonomic nerve system of the iris to determine the presence of subclinical intraocular involvement.  The study included 19 lepromatous (LL), 19 borderline lepromatous (BL), and five borderline tuberculoid (BT) leprosy patients and involved 25 healthy volunteers, 10 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and eight with Duhring disease.  The PCT was measured in these groups.  In all leprosy groups included in the study the PCT was higher than in the control groups.  Moreover, the PCT of the leprosy patients without any intraocular involvement was higher than in the controls.  These results show that in the ophthalmic examination of leprosy patients without any symptoms the fact that autonomic nerve system of the eye is affected by the leprosy can often be determined by measuring the PCT.
Empyema thoracis: 14-year experience in a teaching center.  One hundred two patients with empyema thoracis were managed at the Royal Melbourne Hospital between 1976 and 1989.  Fifty-five cases of empyema thoracis were postpneumonic, 8 followed esophageal rupture, and 5 were associated with thoracic trauma.  Some form of systemic illness was a major contributing factor in the presentation of 29 patients.  A single causal organism was found in 53 patients (the most common being Staphylococcus aureus), multiple organisms in 36, and no growth in 13.  During the years 1983 to 1989 there was an increased incidence of empyemas caused by multiple or antibiotic-resistant organisms.  Operative drainage was required in 90 patients and 12 were managed by thoracentesis or intercostal tube drainage alone.  The in-hospital mortality rate for patients managed nonoperatively was 58% (7 of 12 patients); it was 16% (14 of 90 patients) for those receiving operative drainage.  There were seven late deaths, four empyema related and three nonrelated.  Early adequate operative drainage is recommended for patients with empyema thoracis.
Virola: a promising genus for ethnopharmacological investigation.  Data are now available on the antifungal use of Virola from four countries and some 14 different tribes of Indians in these countries who employ the Virola exudate for the same or similar purposes.  Three of the five methods of ethnobotanical investigation proposed by Schultes and Swain in 1976 have been employed in this ethnobotanical research.  Furthermore, both of the present authors have successfully employed this antifungal treatment themselves.  Given that deep fungal infections of the skin are often considered incurable with medications currently in use, further laboratory analysis of Virola resin should be undertaken as soon as possible.
Improved results with combined donor-specific transfusion (DST) and sequential therapy protocol.  A combined DST-sequential CyA therapy protocol has been described that results in optimum graft survival for 1- and 2-haplotype mismatched living related donor-recipient combinations.  In addition to the excellent graft survival obtained through 4 years, lower prednisone and CyA dosage levels are achieved with significantly decreased infection rates during the posttransplant period.
Systemic and muscle oxygen uptake/delivery after dopexamine infusion in endotoxic dogs   BACKGROUND AND METHODS: This study was designed to test whether dopexamine, a dopaminergic and beta 2-adrenergic agonist, would a) increase systemic oxygen delivery (DO2) in endotoxic dogs, and b) interfere with the ability of resting skeletal muscle to extract oxygen.  There were three treatment groups (n = 6 in each group): control, endotoxin alone (E) 4 mg/kg iv, and endotoxin + dopexamine (E + D) 12 micrograms/kg.min.  Data were analyzed between and within groups by split-plot analysis of variance with significance of identified differences tested post hoc by Duncan's multiple range test.  Donor RBC and dextran were used after endotoxin to maintain adequate perfusion pressures, with Hct kept near 40%.  Blood flow to left hindlimb muscles was decreased in controlled steps of 15 min each after stabilization.  RESULTS: In E group, cardiac output (Qt), mean arterial pressure (MAP), systemic DO2, and oxygen uptake (VO2) decreased despite blood volume expansion.  In E + D group with similar volume expansion, dopexamine maintained Qt, systemic DO2, and VO2 near the control levels, although MAP and systemic vascular resistance were reduced.  In comparison with control subjects, endotoxin increased critical DO2 in the isolated limb muscles from 4.6 to 7.  mL/kg.min and decreased critical oxygen extraction from 81% to 68%.  The pressure/flow relationship in the limb became flattened, indicating loss of vascular reactivity.  In the E + D group, there was no further change in the pressure/flow curve nor in the critical oxygen extraction level.  CONCLUSIONS: Dopexamine provided hemodynamic support for endotoxic dogs, thereby increasing total DO2 and VO2, while not altering oxygen extraction in the muscle.
Sexually transmitted viral disease in women.  During the past decade, the incidence of sexually transmitted viral diseases has increased dramatically.  In many cases, diagnosis is difficult, consequences are severe, and curative therapy is not available at present.  In this article, Drs Peaceman and Gonik review current evidence about sexual transmission of viruses and discuss the latest methods of diagnosis, management, and prevention.
Phospholipase C activity in microorganisms associated with reproductive tract infection.  Phospholipase C (lecithinase or phosphatidylcholine phosphorylase) catalyzes the hydrolysis of lecithin into phosphorylcholine and 1,2-diglyceride.  Bacterial production of phospholipase C may damage reproductive tract tissues by both direct and indirect mechanisms.  Use of the synthetic substrate p-nitrophenylphosphorylcholine phospholipase C activity was determined in 204 isolates representative of those found in female genital tract.  Multiple aerobic (28%) and anaerobic (28%) reproductive tract microorganisms showed phospholipase C activity.  Phospholipase C-producing isolates included strains of Bacteroides fragilis, B.  bivius, B.  thetaiotaomicron, Gardnerella vaginalis, and group B streptococcus.  Phospholipase C activity was heterogenous; not all isolates that belong to a particular species showed activity.  Phospholipase C production may be a possible virulence factor produced by a number of microflora commonly implicated in various reproductive tract infections or conditions, as well as in some instances of preterm birth.
Cytomegalovirus diaper dermatitis.  Cytomegalovirus inclusions have been reported in perineal ulcers from immunosuppressed adults.  The importance of this finding is unknown.  We report the first pediatric case of cutaneous cytomegalovirus infection in an infant with congenital human immunodeficiency virus infection, presenting as a diaper dermatitis.  Cytomegalovirus was cultured from the skin biopsy specimen, and characteristic inclusions were seen on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections.  Results of this biopsy specimen analysis prompted further investigation revealing disseminated cytomegalovirus infection, including retinitis.  Aggressive pursuit of a pathogen in common conditions such as diaper dermatitis is strongly recommended in immunosuppressed pediatric patients.
Penetration of lanthanum through the main pancreatic duct epithelium in cats following exposure to infected human bile.  The main pancreatic duct epithelium acts as a barrier to the diffusion of molecules from the duct lumen into pancreatic acinar and interstitial tissue.  We studied sequential ultrastructural characteristics of the loss of epithelial barrier function in the cat using lanthanum, an electron-opaque tracer, following perfusion of the duct from the tail to the duodenum with infected human bile.  Tight junctions between duct epithelial cells were found to become permeable to the tracer as early as after 15 min of exposure.  Later, there was progressive disintegration of intercellular junctions and epithelial loss.  Lanthanum penetrated the duct epithelium exclusively on an intercellular path.  Loss of barrier function of the pancreatic duct epithelium was consistently associated with subsequent development of acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis.  There was no association between the degree of duct epithelial damage and the severity of acute pancreatitis.  Both bile and a suspension of bacteria alone were not harmful to the pancreas.  Sequential perfusion produced acute pancreatitis only when at first bile and then the bacterial suspension was perfused.  A reversed succession of perfusates produced no morphologic alterations.  We conclude: (1) Increased tight junction permeability is an early lesion in acute bile-induced pancreatitis: (2) loss of duct epithelial barrier function is important for the initiation but not for the severity of the inflammation; and (3) bile renders duct epithelial intercellular junctions vulnerable to Escherichia coli bacteria.
A prospective longitudinal study of observation versus surgical intervention in the management of necrotizing pancreatitis.  Pancreatic necrosis is now recognized as a principal determinant of survival in acute pancreatitis.  However, it is currently unknown how frequently pancreatic necrosis develops in acute pancreatitis, how often pancreatic necrosis becomes secondarily infected, and whether sterile pancreatic necrosis represents an indication for surgery or can be treated by conservative means.  In 194 patients with unequivocal acute pancreatitis, pancreatic necrosis developed in 38 (20%), as documented by dynamic pancreatography, and was confirmed by histologic diagnosis at surgery in 28.  All patients were prospectively treated by medical means.  Patients with pancreatic necrosis who remained persistently febrile underwent fine needle aspiration for bacterial culture.  Infected pancreatic necrosis was demonstrated in 27 of the 38 patients (71%) with pancreatic necrosis and was treated by open drainage, yielding a mortality rate of 15%.  All 11 patients with demonstrated sterile pancreatic necrosis, including 6 with pulmonary and renal insufficiency, were successfully treated without surgery.  Pancreatic necrosis occurs in approximately 20% of patients with acute pancreatitis and is necessary for the development of secondary pancreatic infection.  However, pancreatic necrosis by itself, even when accompanied by organ failure, is not an absolute indication for surgery.  A trial of medical treatment for all patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis is in order.
Cofactors in male-female sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1.  In a study of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-uninfected African prostitutes, 83 (67%) of 124 seroconverted to HIV-1.  Oral contraceptive use (odds ratio [OR], 3.1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1-8.6; P less than .03), genital ulcers (mean annual episodes, 1.32 +/- 0.55 in seroconverting women vs.  0.48 +/- 0.21 in seronegative women; P less than .02) and Chlamydia trachomatis infections (OR, 3.6; CI, 1.3-11.0; P less than .02) were associated with increased risk of HIV-1 infection.  Condom use reduced the risk of HIV-1 infection (OR, 0.11; CI, 0.05-0.27; P less than .0001).  Stepwise logistic regression analysis confirmed independent associations between HIV-1 infection and oral contraceptive use, condom use, genital ulcers, and C.  trachomatis.  The presence of other sexually transmitted diseases may in part explain the heterosexual HIV-1 epidemic in Africa and may represent important targets for intervention to control HIV-1 infection.
Local antibiotic delivery in the treatment of bone and joint infections.  Antibiotics can be delivered locally via an implantable pump to treat bone and joint infections.  This is a completely closed system, and the pump is refilled percutaneously at intervals based on its flow rate.  The use of this method is described in three specific clinical situations: (1) resistant osteomyelitis (patients with persistent infections despite previous therapy), (2) acutely infected arthroplasties (symptomatic for less than six weeks), and (3) chronically infected arthroplasties (patients infected more than six weeks).  In all three clinical situations, hospitalization time was shortened, and high local and low systemic levels of antibiotic were obtained.  There was only one incident of side effects to the antibiotic used.  This method has been successful in obtaining long-term suppression of infection in 30 of 42 patients with resistant osteomyelitis, 30 of 37 patients with acutely infected arthroplasties, and seven of ten patients with chronically infected arthroplasties.  The complication unique to this method of therapy is pump-site and catheter-site infections.  This occurred in three patients with recalcitrant osteomyelitis and three patients with acutely infected arthroplasties.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy following intravenous antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis.  One hundred thirty-six patients were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy (amoxicillin) versus placebo following successful intravenous (IV) antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis.  No subjects were readmitted to the hospital for recurrent endometritis and there were no wound infections or recurrent fevers.  Minor side effects were seen in 10% of those taking amoxicillin and 14% of those taking placebo.  Compliance was fair; only 52% of those taking amoxicillin and 65% of those taking placebo completed therapy.  The lack of infectious complications in this high-risk population suggests that oral antibiotic therapy is unnecessary after successful IV antibiotic therapy for endometritis.
Extrapulmonary and disseminated tuberculosis in HIV-1-seropositive patients presenting to the acute medical services in Nairobi.  We studied 506 consecutive adult acute medical admissions to hospital in Nairobi; 95 (18.8%) were seropositive for HIV-1, and 43 new cases of active tuberculosis (TB) were identified.  TB was clearly associated with HIV infection, occurring in 17.9% of seropositive patients compared with 6.3% of seronegatives [odds ratio (OR) 3.2; 95% confidence limits (CL) 1.6-6.5].  Extrapulmonary disease was more common in seropositive than seronegative TB patients (nine out of 17 versus five out of 26; OR 4.7; 95% CL 1.01-23.6); this accounted for most of the excess cases of TB seen in seropositive patients.  Mycobacteraemia was demonstrated in two of eight seropositive TB patients but in none of 11 seronegative TB patients.  No atypical mycobacteria were isolated.  The World Health Organization (WHO) clinical case definition for African AIDS did not discriminate well between seropositive and seronegative TB cases.  Five out of seven seropositive women with active tuberculosis had delivered children in the preceding 6 months and were lactating, compared with only one out of eight seronegative tuberculous women.  An association between recent childbirth, HIV immunosuppression and the development of TB is suggested.
A ten-year review of neonatal sepsis and comparison with the previous fifty-year experience.  Records have been kept prospectively in our institution since 1928 of all positive blood cultures taken from neonates.  Using a modification of objective Centers for Disease Control criteria to define sepsis, we reviewed the records of all neonates with positive blood cultures for the years 1979 to 1988 inclusive and found 270 cases of sepsis.  The sepsis rate for infants less than or equal to 30 days of age was 2.7 cases/1000 live births, with a mortality rate from sepsis of 15.9%.  There was an increase in sepsis due to commensal species (CS) over the period (P less than 0.007).  The number of infants in the nursery who developed sepsis when more than 30 days of age also increased (P less than 0.002), as did the rate of sepsis from CS in this group (P less than 0.001).  Isolation of CS from the blood with fulfillment of the modified Centers for Disease Control criteria was associated with a 13.7% mortality rate, whereas isolation of CS without fulfillment was associated with a 4% rate (P less than 0.01).
Serological evidence of infection with Helicobacter pylori may predict gastrointestinal intolerance to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment in rheumatoid arthritis.  Specific circulating antibodies to the spiral gastric organism, Helicobacter pylori (HP) were detectable in 43% of 68 patients with rheumatoid arthritis by complement fixation test (CFT) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), a frequency comparable with that of a normal, age-matched population.  Presence of these antibodies correlated strongly with a previous history of peptic ulcer disease (PUD) and to the severity of NSAID-related dyspeptic symptoms, the latter often leading to multiple drug intolerance.  This contrasts with short term, prospective NSAID toxicity data, which show little relationship between ulceration and HP carriage.  This result suggests, however, that HP may have a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptomatic PUD associated with more chronic NSAID usage, and may have important implications for ulcer prophylaxis in these patients.
Helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output in peptic ulcer disease.  Helicobacter pylori is associated with peptic ulcer, and a causal relationship has been postulated.  We investigated the association between Helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output.  Two hundred forty-one patients were studied: 173 with duodenal ulcer, 51 with gastric ulcer (41 corpus, 10 prepyloric), and 17 with combined gastric and duodenal ulcer.  In 194 patients (80%), Helicobacter pylori could be demonstrated histologically from gastric antral biopsies.  The presence or absence of Helicobacter pylori was not influenced by age, sex, or use of tobacco or analgesics.  Patients with duodenal ulcer or combined gastric and duodenal ulcer had similar gastric acid outputs irrespective of the presence or absence of Helicobacter pylori.  However, gastric ulcer patients with Helicobacter had higher basal and maximal acid outputs when compared to patients without Helicobacter (mean basal output: 4.1 mmol/hr vs 2.4, P less than 0.05; mean maximal output 19.5 mmol/hr vs.  14.4, P less than 0.05).  Although Helicobacter pylori is associated with both gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer, its significance may be different in the two diseases.
Acute osteomyelitis in children. Reassessment of etiologic agents and their clinical characteristics.  One hundred thirty-five children with acute osteomyelitis were identified by chart review during a 7-year period, January 1, 1980, through December 31, 1986.  Bacteriologic causes were detected in 75 (55%) of the patients.  Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae type b, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were identified in 34 (25%), 16 (12%), and eight (6%) children, respectively.  Staphylococcus aureus occurred in all age groups, H influenzae type b occurred only in children younger than 3 years and was the number one cause of disease in this group.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa occurred exclusively in children older than 9 years.  Children with H influenzae type b had clinical and laboratory findings that were almost indistinguishable from a matched group of children with osteomyelitis due to other known bacteria, although children with H influenzae type b tended to have more joint effusions (63% vs 27%), less lower extremity disease (22% vs 70%), and fewer positive cultures from bone or joint aspirates (41% vs 89%).  Unlike most pediatric cases of osteomyelitis, the ones due to P aeruginosa did not represent the hematogenous route of infection; penetrating injury to the foot was present in every case.  Children with P aeruginosa infections were older than 9 years (100%), predominantly male (88%), often afebrile (83%), and never bacteremic.  These data provide guidelines for the initial work-up and management of osteomyelitis in children.
The febrile alcoholic in the emergency department.  The authors retrospectively reviewed the charts of 31 alcoholic patients admitted with fever without a defined source.  In our population 58% of patients were subsequently found to have an infectious cause for their fever.  Pneumonia was the most common infection, but occult urinary tract infections were seen surprisingly often.  Noninfectious but serious disorders, such as delirium tremens, prolonged postictal state, and subarachnoid hemorrhage, were also common.  Infectious and noninfectious causes commonly coexisted.  The most common noninfectious cause was alcohol withdrawal, with or without seizures.  The authors believe that indigent, malnourished, chronic alcoholics with fever for which a source cannot be readily identified, should usually be admitted to the hospital for observation and to await culture results.
Diagnosis of poststernotomy infection: comparison of three means of assessment.  Of 737 adults undergoing cardiac operations through a median sternotomy over a 2-year period (January 1988 to January 1990), sternal-substernal space infection requiring mediastinal exploration developed in 8.  Six of these patients as well as 18 additional patients were evaluated for possible poststernotomy wound infection by computed tomography (4 true positive, 4 false positive, 10 true negative, 2 false negative), indium-111 leukocyte scanning (5 true positive, 0 false positive, 18 true negative, 1 false negative), and epicardial pacer wire cultures (6 true positive, 1 false positive, 12 true negative, 0 false negative).  On the basis of this experience it is suggested that in addition to computed tomography, indium-111 leukocyte scanning and epicardial pacer wire cultures may be useful in the diagnosis of poststernotomy deep wound infection.
Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to Salmonella enteritidis in cirrhotic ascites.  Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to Salmonella is uncommon.  We report three patients with ascites infected by Salmonella.  All three patients had advanced chronic liver disease, typically cirrhosis with portal hypertension.  Salmonella enteritidis grew in the ascite fluid culture of the three patients.  There was no clinical or microbiological evidence of Salmonella infection other than in the ascitic fluid.  One patient died before antibiotic treatment was started, but the other two were treated with different combinations of antimicrobial drugs.  One of them died on the fourteenth day of hospitalization, and the other survived.
The diabetic foot. Soft tissue and bone infection.  Diabetic patients, as a consequence of various neurologic, vascular, and metabolic perturbations, are at high risk for developing infections of the soft tissue and bones of the feet.  The microbial etiology of soft tissue in infections is best determined by cultures of a tissue curetting or aspiration, rather than a swab.  Aerobic gram-positive cocci are the major pathogens in diabetic foot infections; these may be the sole isolate(s) in acute uncomplicated infections, but they are usually accompanied by aerobic gram-negative bacilli or anaerobes in chronic or previously treated infections.  Carefully selected patients with mild infections can be treated as outpatients with oral antibiotics, but others require hospitalization and broad-spectrum parenteral antibiotics.  Bone infections are frequently diagnosed on the basis of roentgenographs and nuclear medicine scans, but these methods are often inaccurate, and bone cultures should be obtained whenever possible.
Indium-111-chloride and three-phase bone scintigraphy: a comparison for imaging experimental osteomyelitis.  To investigate the utility of indium-111-chloride (111In-Cl) imaging in detecting osteomyelitis complicating surgical or fracture sites, the proximal tibia of 11 dogs were experimentally infected with Staphylococcus aureus after creation of a cortical defect.  The contralateral limb served as a sham-operated control.  Animals were serially imaged by radiography, three-phase technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate (99mTc-MDP) scintigraphy, and 111In-Cl scintigraphy.  There was a significant difference between infected (1.93) and noninfected (1.32) limb's tibia/femur count density ratios on 24-hr (p = 0.0001) and 72-hr (p = 0.0001) 111In-Cl images.  A smaller difference was found for 99mTc-MDP bone-phase tibia/femur ratios (p = 0.0199).  Using receiver operator characteristic analysis of tibia/femur ratios, a sensitivity of 61%, specificity of 88%, and positive (75%) and negative (79%) predictive values were determined for the 24-hr 111In-Cl images.  Indium-111-chloride was superior to 99mTc-MDP in differentiating infected and noninfected operative sites.
Pulmonary artery occlusion-left atrial pressure gradient: an important factor in determining pulmonary venous vascular resistance in acute pulmonary failure.  OBJECTIVE: To determine whether pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP) accurately reflects left atrial pressure (LAP) in acute pulmonary failure.  DESIGN: Sham-controlled laboratory investigation on Goettingen minipigs.  INTERVENTIONS: Induction of acute respiratory failure by a 4-hr infusion of live Escherichia coli bacteria in 11 animals; two animals served as the control group.  Anesthesia was obtained with methohexital/piritramide and pancuronium bromide.  MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Cardiac output and pressures were measured by means of femoral artery, pulmonary artery, and left atrial catheters.  Arterial-alveolar Po2 ratio was calculated to evaluate pulmonary function.  Measurements were obtained before and after 1 and 2 hr of the E.  coli infusion.  Statistical significance was tested with analysis of variance.  E.  coli infusion caused the hypodynamic shock and respiratory failure.  The PAOP-LAP gradient was -0.3 +/- 1.6 mm Hg before bacteremia and increased significantly (p less than .001) to 2.9 +/- 1.8 and 3.4 +/- 2.0 mm Hg after 1 and 2 hr of bacteremia, respectively.  No significant changes occurred in the sham group.  CONCLUSIONS: A PAOP-LAP gradient may develop during acute respiratory failure.  Therefore, pulmonary venous vascular resistance may be underestimated if its determination is based on PAOP.  An increase in bronchial to pulmonary blood flow and pulmonary venoconstriction are discussed as hypothetical causes of a PAOP-LAP gradient during acute respiratory failure.
Diffuse-adhering Escherichia coli (DAEC) as a putative cause of diarrhea in Mayan children in Mexico.  Diarrhea is a major cause of infantile morbidity and mortality in developing countries.  A community-based, case control study was conducted in a southern Mexican Mayan village for 3 weeks during the peak diarrhea period to prospectively identify the infectious agents associated with childhood diarrheal disease.  Several enteropathogens were isolated from stools of 34 of 58 cases, although none was significantly associated with diarrhea.  For the 24 cases from which no enteropathogens were isolated, diffuse-adhering Escherichia coli (DAEC) strains were significantly associated with diarrheal disease (P less than .02; odds ratio = 6; 95% confidence limit, 1.08-99.0).  DAEC were highly heterogeneous with respect to plasmid content and serotype.  Three DNA probes designed to differentiate E.  coli exhibiting localized, diffuse, or aggregative adherence were compared with results from a standard HeLa cell binding assay to assess the utility of these probes in the field.  This study provides evidence for the potential pathogenic capacity of DAEC and underscores the variety of diarrheal agents operating within a community.
Fungal meningitis.  Fungal meningitis tends to be a subacute or chronic process; however, it may be just as lethal as bacterial meningitis if untreated.  There are many similarities between the pathogenic fungi.  Most of the fungi are aerosolized and inhaled, and initiate a primary pulmonary infection which is usually self-limited.  Hematogenous dissemination may follow the initial infection, with subsequent involvement of the CNS.  Rarely, trauma or local extension provides the route to CNS infection.  The host is frequently, although not always, immunosuppressed.  The hyphae of molds generally cause focal disease with hemorrhagic necrosis secondary to vascular thrombosis.  The yeasts tend to cause a more diffuse process with the base of the brain being primarily affected, such that hydrocephalus is seen as a frequent complication of chronic disease.  Diagnosis may be difficult, as the CSF may be normal, with negative smears and sterile cultures, although more often there is at least one abnormality indicating disease.  Serologies (if available, depending on the fungus) may point towards the proper diagnosis, as may a careful travel history.  Currently, amphotericin B is still the drug of choice in most situations; however, the newer azole antifungal agents offer great promise, especially in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis.  The precise role of such agents will remain unclear until appropriate large-scale studies of their effectiveness have been completed.  The treatment of the unusual CNS mycoses will continue to be based on clinical experience, and reports of the use of new azoles in these diseases need to be critically evaluated.
Roentgenologic features of pulmonary blastomycosis.  In 35 cases of pulmonary blastomycosis, the roentgenologic features were as follows: consolidation 26%, mass 31%, intermediate-sized nodules 6%, miliary pattern 11%, solitary cavity 9%, fibrotic and cavitary changes 6%, interstitial pattern 6%, diffuse alveolar involvement 3%, and mixed alveolar and interstitial infiltrate 3%.  All symptomatic cases of consolidation were acute (symptoms for less than 1 month), and most were in young patients (mean age, 34 years).  Consolidation constituted 58% of the acute cases in this series.  Two of the nine cases of consolidation were asymptomatic epidemic cases detected by screening.  A pulmonary mass was the most common initial manifestation in this series; it tended to occur in patients with chronic symptoms (more than 1 month).  The mass was considered suggestive enough of bronchogenic carcinoma to necessitate resection in 55% of cases.  The military form of pulmonary blastomycosis occurred in older patients with disseminated disease.  Fibrotic and cavitary disease was chronic in nature.  The presence of intermediate-sized nodules elsewhere in the lung proved to be a helpful diagnostic finding in several patients with consolidation, mass, or cavitary disease.  Hilar adenopathy, postinfectious calcification, chest wall invasion, and pleural effusion occurred infrequently or not at all in this series.
Improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis by transesophageal echocardiography   BACKGROUND.  Echocardiography is recognized as the method of choice for the noninvasive detection of valvular vegetations in patients with infective endocarditis, with transesophageal echocardiography being more accurate than transthoracic echocardiography.  The diagnosis of associated abscesses by transthoracic echocardiography is difficult or even impossible in many cases, however, and it is not known whether transesophageal echocardiography is any better.  METHODS.  To determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis, we studied prospectively by two-dimensional transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography 118 consecutive patients with infective endocarditis of 137 native or prosthetic valves that was documented during surgery or at autopsy.  RESULTS.  During surgery or at autopsy, 44 patients (37.3 percent) had a total of 46 definite regions of abscess.  Abscesses were more frequent in aortic-valve endocarditis than in infections of other valves, and the infecting organism was more often staphylococcus (52.3 percent of cases) in patients with abscesses than in those without abscesses (16.2 percent).  The hospital mortality rate was 22.7 percent in patients with abscesses, as compared with 13.5 percent in patients without abscesses.  Whereas transthoracic echocardiography identified only 13 of the 46 areas of abscess, the transesophageal approach allowed the detection of 40 regions (P less than 0.001).  Sensitivity and specificity for the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis were 28.3 and 98.6 percent, respectively, for transthoracic echocardiography and 87.0 and 94.6 percent for transesophageal echocardiography; positive and negative predictive values were 92.9 and 68.9 percent, respectively, for the transthoracic approach and 90.9 and 92.1 percent for the transesophageal approach.  Variation between observers was 3.4 percent for transthoracic and 4.2 percent for transesophageal echocardiography.  CONCLUSIONS.  The data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a significant improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis.  The technique facilitates the identification of patients with endocarditis who have an increased risk of death and permits earlier treatment.
The role of the urologist in urinary tract infection.  The urologist's role in urinary tract infections will vary according to the situation.  Urologists do give primary care, consult, define anatomic abnormalities, surgically correct abnormalities, and do basic research in the field of urinary tract infections.  Urologists are essential in diagnosing and managing cases with infections behind obstructions and working out the differential diagnoses of chronic prostatitis.
Malassezia furfur fungemia associated with central venous catheter lipid emulsion infusion.  Malassezia furfur has been associated with fungemias in infants after prolonged intravenous lipid emulsion alimentation.  Most cases of M.  furfur fungemia reported in the literature involved neonates and required catheter removal for cure.  M.  furfur is probably an underreported problem in neonates as well as adults with central venous catheters, receiving lipid emulsions, because the organism requires selective enrichment media for growth, for example, Sabouraud's dextrose agar with sterile olive oil overlay.  This case report of M.  furfur fungemia in a neonates is unique because the neonate recovered on discontinuation of the lipid emulsion, without removal of the central venous catheter.
Dependence among host response parameters used to diagnose urinary tract infection.  The host-response parameters fever, C-reactive protein (CRP), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) are activated in concert by cytokines such as interleukin-6 (IL-6).  Il-6 is secreted in response to Escherichia coli infection of the urinary tract.  This study tested the hypothesis that the level of fever, CRP, and ESR is coregulated in individual patients.  Body temperature, CRP, ESR, pyuria, and renal concentrating capacity were analyzed in 692 children with first-time urinary tract infections.  The association of the parameters was evaluated by correlation and multiple regression analysis.  The body temperature, CRP, and ESR were significantly correlated (r = .54, .58, and .58; P less than .001), and variation in CRP and ESR explained approximately 40% of the variation in fever.  In contrast, the renal concentrating capacity and pyruia were weakly or not at all correlated with the febrile response (r = -.22; P less than .001), and less than 10% of the variation in renal concentrating capacity was explained by the other parameters.  The results suggest that fever, CRP, and ESR describe the same aspect of the host response to UTI.
Transmission of 'toxic strep' syndrome from an infected child to a firefighter during CPR.  Several cases of a toxic shocklike syndrome have been reported in the United States during the past five years in association with Streptococcus pyogenes infection.  We report a case of a firefighter exposed during attempted CPR to the secretions of an S pyogenes-infected child.  The firefighter developed an infection of the hand and subsequent febrile illness with hypotension, erythematous rash, renal failure, and hypocalcemia.  Bacterial isolates of blood and cerebrospinal fluid from the deceased child were identical in type and exotoxin production with isolates grown from the hand wound of the firefighter.  This is the first reported case of documented transmission of S pyogenes, causing a toxic shocklike syndrome in an emergency medical technician.
Clostridium difficile disease in a department of surgery. The significance of prophylactic antibiotics.  A clustering of Clostridium difficile-associated disease in a department of surgery prompted a program of infection control and the evaluation of contributing factors.  Fifty patients had diarrhea and positive assays for C difficile cytotoxin during the study period.  Twenty-one of the 36 cases that developed among patients admitted to the surgical services occurred on two adjacent general surgery wards that shared attending surgeons and house staff.  Perioperative prophylactic antibiotics predated C difficile-associated disease in 20 patients, 12 of whom had short courses (less than 24 hours).  Symptoms were typically nonspecific and early diagnosis may be difficult.  Incidence remained high, despite infection control measures, until the coincidental closure of two surgical wards.  Clostridium difficile-associated disease is a nosocomial infection that can be associated with short courses of prophylactic antibiotics.  Recommendations regarding the use of perioperative prophylaxis should recognize C difficile-associated disease as a significant potential complication.
Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of three-month treatment with lymecycline in reactive arthritis, with special reference to Chlamydia arthritis.  We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study of 3-month treatment with lymecycline, a form of tetracycline, in reactive arthritis (ReA).  Lymecycline therapy significantly decreased the duration of the illness in patients with Chlamydia trachomatis-triggered ReA, but not in other ReA patients.  In 2 ReA patients, C trachomatis was found in the throat, an uncommon locale for this organism.  Our results suggest that it is important to verify the triggering microbe and that it is beneficial to treat Chlamydia arthritis patients with a prolonged course of tetracycline.
Diagnosis of disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex.  Isolation of Mycobacterium avium complex from sputum specimens in association with the appearance of a new cavitary (or infiltrative) lesion was studied in 299 patients from whom the organism was isolated one or more times.  Of the patients studied, 114 showed only single isolation.  Of these 114, only two patients (2 percent) had association with appearance of a cavitary lesion.  Of 29 patients who showed two isolations, 26 (90 percent) had the association.  Of 40 patients who showed three isolations, 39 (98 percent) had the association.  All 116 patients who showed four or more isolations had the association with appearance of a cavitary lesion.  Accordingly, of a total of 185 patients who showed two or more isolations, 181 (98 percent) had the association.  Of these 181, 176 (97 percent) showed two or more isolations in the sputum examinations made in the initial three days.  Therefore, the sputum examination in the first three days after onset of disease is most important for the diagnosis of disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex.  Since the probability that casual isolation of the organism occurs twice is extremely low, we can make the diagnosis of pulmonary infection caused by this organism by evidence of two or more isolations of the organism in the first few days after the onset of disease, which is associated with appearance of a new cavitary (or infiltrative) lesion.  Moreover, theoretical consideration made in this study has led us to conclude that patients who have had a single isolation of the organism together with a new cavitary lesion should be regarded as having an infection.
Behavior of the pulmonary circulation at rest and during exercise in miliary tuberculosis.  We studied the hemodynamic behavior of the pulmonary circulation at rest and during exercise in six patients with MTB.  As a group, in contrast to advanced fibrocaseous tuberculosis, these patients exhibited normal pulmonary hemodynamics at rest and during exercise.  Only minor abnormalities in pulmonary vascular resistance at exercise (increased PAd-PWP gradient) were noted in two of the patients.  The increase in Rp during exercise does not appear to be related to acute hypoxic vasoconstruction but rather to functional changes (compliance or recruitment or both) of the pulmonary microvasculature.  In the genesis of these functional changes, chronic alveolar hypoxia and the inflammatory-fibrotic process might be interacting.
Role of new cephamycins in the management of obstetric and gynecologic infections.  The results of in vitro and in vivo studies of cefmetazole, a second-generation cephamycin, were reviewed.  Cefmetazole's spectrum of activity includes clinical coverage of many Enterobacteriaceae, staphylococci, streptococci, Haemophilus species, pathogenic Neisseria organisms, Moraxella (Branhamella) catarrhalis and anaerobic bacteria.  Cefmetazole is generally two to eight times more potent than cefoxitin against organisms within their spectra and is most active against staphylococci (minimal inhibitory concentration90 = 2.0 micrograms/mL).  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus strains are more susceptible to cefmetazole, alone or in combination with fosfomycin, than to any other cephamycins, and cefmetazole is remarkably resistant to the beta-lactamases produced by aerobic and anaerobic bacteria.  The incidence of adverse drug reactions is low (8.8% in the United States, 2.2% in Japan), and the drug has been demonstrated to have cost-containment potential.
Endotoxemia in human septic shock.  To evaluate the incidence, pattern and clinical importance of endotoxemia in septic shock, frequent, serial endotoxin determinations were made prospectively in patients with shock.  Detectable endotoxin occurred in 43 of 100 patients with septic shock, but in only one of ten patients with shock due to nonseptic causes.  During septic shock, endotoxemia frequently occurred in the absence of Gram-negative bacteremia.  Using a logistic regression model, multiple organ failure occurred 10.3 times more frequently and depression of left ventricular ejection fraction (less than or equal to 45 percent) 4.8 times more frequently in endotoxemic patients.  In patients with positive blood cultures, endotoxemia was associated with a high mortality.  We conclude that endotoxemia occurs frequently in septic shock and is associated with severe manifestations of this syndrome, including cardiac depression and multiple organ failure.  This study suggests that endotoxin is an important mediator of septic shock and supports efforts to develop anti-endotoxin therapies for treating patients with this disease.
Posterior infectious crystalline keratopathy with Staphylococcus epidermidis.  Two cases of infectious crystalline keratopathy located in the posterior stroma after penetrating keratoplasty are presented.  Topical steroids and suture removal were risk factors in both cases.  In the first case, a moderate anterior chamber reaction was present.  Crystalline infiltrates persisted on topical and systemic steroid therapy.  In the second case, deep corneal ulceration, hypopyon, and vitreitis were noted.  A vitreous aspirate showed rare gram-positive cocci in pairs.  The corneal ulceration and crystalline keratopathy persisted despite intravitreal and topical antibiotics.  Therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty was performed in both cases.  Staphylococcus epidermidis sensitive to vancomycin was isolated from corneal tissue.  Light microscopy documented aggregates of gram-positive bacteria anterior to Descemet's membrane, with an overlying keratitis.  Electron microscopy in the second case showed all bacteria within stromal keratocytes.  No clinical recurrence was seen using topical vancomycin.  As demonstrated in the cases presented, infectious crystalline keratopathy can occur exclusively in the deeper layers of the cornea.  Isolation of S.  epidermidis, associated inflammation, and intraocular spread of organisms are rare findings.
Correlation of gross and microscopic appearance of skin buttons in total artificial heart animals.  Pneumatic artificial hearts are powered by compressed air that is delivered through percutaneous tubes.  A stress relief device, termed a skin button, surrounds these tubes as they exit from the recipient's tissues.  The skin button is designed to protect the tissues from damage and provide a secure material-tissue interface.  Prevention of superficial and invasive infection is the primary goal of the skin button.  Eight calves were studied prospectively to identify gross or microscopic infection with the skin button.  All animals who survived more than sixty days (62-136) had both gross and microscopic evidence of infection.  All animals surviving less than 60 days (13-43) had no gross evidence of infection but one had subcutaneous microscopic abscess formation.  No animal died secondary to a skin button infection.  Skin buttons cannot prevent infection but they can contain the pathologic process in the superficial tissues with no evidence of systemic effects.
Aerobic and anaerobic microbiology of acute suppurative parotitis.  Aspirates of pus from acute suppurative parotitis were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria.  Bacterial growth was present in 23 specimens.  A total of 36 bacterial isolates (20 anaerobic and 16 aerobic and facultative) were recovered, accounting for 1.6 isolates per specimen (0.9 anaerobic and 0.7 aerobic and facultative).  Anaerobic bacteria only were present in 10 (43%) patients, aerobic and facultatives in 10 (43%), and mixed aerobic and anaerobic flora in 3 (13%).  Single bacterial isolates were recovered in 9 infections, 6 of which were Staphylococcus aureus and 3 were anaerobic bacteria.  The predominant bacterial isolates were S.  aureus (8 isolates), Bacteroides sp.  (6 isolates, including 4 Bacteroides melaninogenicus group), and Peptostreptococcus sp.  (5).  beta-Lactamase-producing organisms were recovered from 11 (73%) of the 15 specimens tested.  This study highlights the polymicrobial nature and importance of anaerobic bacteria in acute suppurative parotitis.
Risks of intestinal anastomoses in Crohn's disease.  Six hundred fifty-eight intestinal anastomoses in 429 operations for Crohn's disease were studied prospectively during an 8-year period to detect variables connected with perioperative morbidity.  Postoperative complications occurred in 9.7% of the patients, 4% had to be reoperated on, and the overall mortality rate was 0.5%.  In multivariate analysis by stepwise logistic regression, the only variable significantly (p = 0.03) associated with overall rate of complications was long-term corticosteroid therapy.  Serious complications were more common in cases of intra-abdominal abscesses (p = 0.01) and preoperative steroid medication (p = 0.03).  The combination of both of these risk factors increased the rate of reoperations from 0.6% (no steroids, no abscess) to 16% (steroids and abscess).  No significant association with postoperative complications could be found for age, sex, duration of disease, previous operations, nutritional status, emergency surgery, extent of disease, type, number, and localization of anastomoses, presence of proximal ileo-/colostomy, or histologically inflamed margins of resection.
Left atrial bacterial mural endocarditis.  An unusual case of Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis confined to the mural left atrium is presented.  Echocardiographic studies revealed a 1.5 x 2.0-cm vegetation mimicking a myxoma situated in the path of a mitral regurgitant jet on a color Doppler test.  Emboli to upper and lower extremities and brain complicated the patient's preoperative course.  Surgical excision and pathologic examination confirmed this rare occurrence.
Yersinia enterocolitica O:3: an emerging cause of pediatric gastroenteritis in the United States. The Yersinia enterocolitica Collaborative Study Group.  After an outbreak of Yersinia enterocolitica infections among black children in Atlanta, a seven-hospital study was conducted to determine the importance of this pathogen in other communities with large black populations.  Of 4841 stool specimens from patients with gastroenteritis examined between November 1989 and January 1990, Y.  enterocolitica, Shigella, Campylobacter, and Salmonella were identified in 38, 49, 60, and 98 specimens, respectively; 34 (92%) of 37 Y.  enterocolitica isolates were serotype O:3.  Of the 38 patients with yersiniosis, 37 (97%) were children.  Illnesses were clustered around the holidays, and 20 (62%) of 32 patients had been exposed to raw pork intestines in the 2 weeks before onset.  Exposure was significantly associated with illness in a case-control study of eight patients identified at one hospital (P = .004).  Infants less than or equal to 6 months old with yersiniosis were more likely to have immature-to-total neutrophil ratios greater than 0.50 than were infants of comparable age with salmonellosis (P = .02).  Infrequently isolated in the past, Y.  enterocolitica O:3 is emerging as an important enteric pathogen in this country, particularly among black children.
Etiologic and clinical evaluation of acute lower respiratory tract infections in young Argentinian children: an overview.  This paper summarizes the first study on clinical, etiologic, and epidemiologic features of acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) in children in Argentina.  A total of 1,003 children less than 5 years of age (805 inpatients and 198 outpatients) presenting with ALRI were studied during a 40-month period.  Nasopharyngeal aspirate (NPA), blood, urine, and throat-swab samples were collected when each child was first seen for care.  Virologic studies were performed on the NPA by means of indirect immunofluorescence and isolation of virus in cell culture.  Bacteriologic studies primarily were done by means of culture of blood or pleural fluid (when available); Bordetella pertussis and Mycoplasma pneumoniae, however, were searched for by the use of immunofluorescence and complement-fixation testing, respectively, in paired sera.  Respiratory syncytial virus was the most commonly isolated virus, followed by adenovirus, parainfluenza virus, and influenza virus.  Streptococcus pneumoniae was the most frequently isolated bacterium, followed by B.  pertussis and Haemophilus influenzae type b.  Overall, the patient fatality rate was 3.8% among inpatients with pneumonia or bronchiolitis.
Therapeutic dilemmas in the treatment of pelvic infections.  The identification of pathogens and the early recognition of pelvic infections in patients after hysterectomy, cesarean delivery and vaginal delivery were analyzed.  Criteria for administering cephamycin therapy were established, as were guidelines for evaluating the progress of the infection.  In a comparative study of the safety and efficacy of cefmetazole and cefoxitin in 145 hospitalized patients with pelvic infections there were no significant differences between either the bacteriologic or clinical cure rates of the two antibiotics.  Both were efficacious and safe for the treatment of obstetric-gynecologic soft tissue infections.
Risk of respiratory illness associated with day-care attendance: a nationwide study.  The risk of respiratory and other illnesses in children (age groups: 6 weeks through 17 months, 18 through 35 months, and 36 through 59 months) in various types of day-care facilities was studied.  Children considered exposed to day care were those who were enrolled in day care with at least one unrelated child for at least 10 hours per week in each of the 4 weeks before the interview; unexposed children were not enrolled in any regular child care with unrelated children and did not have siblings younger than 5 years of age receiving regular care with unrelated children.  Although an increased risk of respiratory illness was associated with attending day care for children in all three age groups, this risk was statistically significant only for children 6 weeks through 17 months of age (odds ratio = 1.6; 95% confidence interval = 1.1 to 2.4) and children 18 through 35 months of age who had no older siblings (odds ratio = 3.4; 95% confidence interval = 2.0 to 6.0).  In contrast, day-care attendance was not associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness in children 18 through 35 months of age with older siblings (odds ratio = 1.0).  For children aged 6 weeks through 17 months, the exposure to older siblings was associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness; however, for children aged 36 through 59 months, older siblings were protective against respiratory illness.  In addition, for the children in each age group currently in day care, increased duration of past exposure to day care was associated with a decreased risk of respiratory illness.
Terconazole for the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis.  A double-blind, randomized trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of terconazole for vulvovaginal candidiasis.  Treatment consisted of daily intravaginal application of one of the following regimens: 80-mg terconazole suppositories for 3 days, miconazole nitrate suppositories for 7 days or placebo suppositories for 7 days.  The terconazole and miconazole nitrate groups had significantly higher therapeutic cure rates than did the placebo group.  Evaluation of vaginal secretions with microscopic examination showed no evidence of leukocyte proliferation.  Proline aminopeptidase activity, present in patients who have bacterial vaginosis, could not be detected in the vaginal secretions from patients with yeast vulvovaginitis.
Mucosal intussusception to avoid ascending cholangitis.  Many methods have been devised to prevent ascending cholangitis following Kasai's hepatic portoenterostomy for biliary atresia.  To investigate the effectiveness of mucosal intussusception in preventing ascending cholangitis, 20 mongrel dogs were randomized to undergo Roux-en-Y cholecystjejunostomy and common bile duct ligation with or without mucosal intussusception.  Aeromonas hydrophila was instilled into the gastrointestinal tract.  Bacterial cultures were grown from samples taken from the gallbladders and lower jejunum, and blood chemistry and barium studies were performed.  The barium studies showed satisfactory lack of reflux in all ten dogs with mucosal intussusception.  Only two of them had positive cultures for Aeromonas from the gallbladder 3 days after bacterial instillation into the jejunum.  All ten dogs in the control group had positive cultures for Aeromonas from the gallbladder.  Our results showed that the mucosal intussusception group had a significantly lower rate of recovery of organisms from the gallbladder compared with the control group when the organisms were instilled into distal intestine (P less than 0.05).  The method is worthy of clinical trial as a means of preventing or treating ascending cholangitis.
Effect of aerosolized fibrin solution on intraperitoneal contamination.  The potential deleterious effects of aerosolized fibrin on contaminated procedures were investigated in a rat model of peritonitis.  One hundred forty rats were divided into two groups.  In the control group, gelatin capsules containing feces (10(7) bacteria per milliliter) and barium sulfate at various dilutions were placed into the abdomen; in the second experimental group, a solution of cryoprecipitate, thrombin, and calcium was sprayed diffusely into the peritoneal cavity after similar fecal contamination.  Fecal inocula with low bacterial concentrations (0.01, 0.1, and 0.15 mL) caused few deaths from peritonitis or abscess formation in either group.  Heavy peritoneal contamination (0.25, 0.3, and 0.5 mL) caused early deaths from peritonitis in both groups, with 80% of the deaths due to sepsis in the first 48 hours.  However, in the moderately contaminated rats (0.2 mL of fecal inoculate), fibrin aerosol reduced the 10-day mortality from 80% to 10%.  In all survivors in the fibrin-treated group, intraperitoneal abscesses developed.  With intraperitoneal bacterial concentrations of 2 x 10(6) organisms, early acute mortality from fibrinopurulent peritonitis is decreased at the expense of late, localized, nonlethal abscess formation.  Aerosolized fibrin solution must be used with caution in contaminated surgery.
Modern chemotherapy for brucellosis in humans.  The most effective, least toxic chemotherapy for human brucellosis is still undecided.  In vitro, the antibiotics most active against Brucella include the tetracyclines, the aminoglycosides, the aminopenicillins, some cephalosporins, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, erythromycin, rifampin, and some new fluorinated quinolones.  Because Brucella species are facultative intracellular parasites, the penetration of drugs into and within phagocytes and phagosomes can be problematic and can best be studied in experimental animals or tissue cultures.  In humans, the effectiveness of various regimens of chemotherapy has been compared best in acute bacteremic infections by assessment of the control of symptoms, bacteremia, complications, and relapses.  The standard therapy against which all other therapies have been judged is a combination of tetracycline and streptomycin, which is almost universally effective but fails to prevent relapse in 10% of cases.  A combination of oral doxycycline and rifampin is convenient and currently popular; it is highly effective, with an average relapse rate of only 8.4%.  Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is less effective in controlling bacteremia and other manifestations: in collected series, 5.7% of cases did not respond and 12% relapsed.  Drug-resistant Brucella strains are rarely a cause of therapy failure.  Localized brucellosis poses special problems, often requiring surgery in addition to prolonged combined chemotherapy.
Endobronchial actinomycosis simulating bronchogenic carcinoma. Diagnosis by bronchial biopsy.  Five cases of actinomycosis of the main bronchi or trachea which were suggestive clinically of bronchogenic carcinoma are described.  In four patients the correct diagnosis was made by a bronchial biopsy or wash, or both.  Three of them recovered following antibiotic treatment, and one died a few days after bronchoscopy.  In one case the Actinomyces were found in the bronchial wash retrospectively following diagnosis of pulmonary actinomycosis in the lobectomy specimen.  A concomitant endobronchial lipoma was found in one of the patients.  The diagnosis of pulmonary actinomycosis by bronchial biopsy may save the patient major surgical intervention.
Preventing group B streptococcal infection in newborns.  Group B streptococci, commonly found in the maternal gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts, can be transmitted to the neonate at the time of rupture of membranes and during delivery.  Current management strategies include early detection of group B streptococcal carriers and the administration of intrapartum prophylactic antibiotics to prevent maternal fetal transmission.  Several tests are now available to rapidly identify group B streptococcal carriers.  Physicians should be able to recognize patients at high risk for colonization and the situations in which prophylactic antibiotics should be employed.  Proper use of antibiotics during labor can eliminate group B streptococcal sepsis in neonates.  Early group B streptococcal meningitis carries a mortality rate of almost 50 percent, despite medical support from neonatal intensive care units.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia in patients undergoing liver transplantation: an emerging problem.  In our institution, Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia appeared to occur with increasing frequency in patients undergoing liver transplantation.  We thus conducted a prospective study to define risk factors and outcome in these patients.  Over a 19-month period 6% of liver transplants were followed by Pseudomonas bacteremia.  The mean age was 46 years (range, 24 to 67 years).  The interval between transplantation and onset of bacteremia was 3 to 372 days (mean, 80).  The incidence of Pseudomonas bacteremia in liver transplants was three times that of other transplants (heart, lung, kidney).  Ninety one percent of infections were nosocomial.  Polymicrobial bacteremia occurred in 30% of episodes.  The portal of entry was respiratory in 30%, abdominal in 35%, and biliary in 13%.  Four patients had recurrent Pseudomonas bacteremia: liver abscess (1), biliary obstruction (2), subhepatic abscess (1).  Survival at 14 days was 70%.  Survival rates were significantly lower for patients with hypotension, on mechanical ventilators, and increasing severity of illness (p less than 0.05).  Survival was higher when bacteremia occurred within the first 30 days after transplantation compared to after 30 days.  A large number (43.4%) of Pseudomonas bacteremias occurred after transplant surgery of biliary tract manipulation, while the patient was receiving a prophylactic regimen of cefotaxime and ampicillin.  P.  aeruginosa is an important pathogen in the liver transplant recipient; prevention may be possible for a subgroup of patients with the use of prophylactic antibiotics with activity against P.  aeruginosa.
Role of cephamycins in obstetrics and gynecology.  Infections of the female upper genital tract are usually polymicrobic, often involving mixed aerobic (facultative) and anaerobic bacteria.  Optimal therapy provides coverage against aerobes (both gram positive and gram negative and especially the Enterobacteriaceae) and anaerobes (especially the beta-lactamase-producing gram-negative species, such as Bacteroides).  A variety of antibiotics provide the broad spectrum of activity needed for these infections, including clindamycin plus an aminoglycoside, cephalosporins and cephamycins, imipenem, extended-spectrum penicillins and the beta-lactam agents combined with a beta-lactamase inhibitor.  The cephamycins--cefoxitin, cefotetan and cefmetazole--have been shown to have a high rate of clinical efficacy and bacteriologic response.  The cephalosporins are usually used for prophylaxis at the time of obstetric and gynecologic surgery.  The cephamycins have recently undergone extensive evaluation for prophylaxis and have demonstrated comparable microbiologic and clinical efficacy.  A pharmacokinetic comparison of cefoxitin, cefotetan and cefmetazole points to cefmetazole as a cost-effective alternative to cefoxitin and cefotetan for both prophylaxis and treatment of pelvic infections.
Nosocomial pneumonia in adult patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation: a 9-year study.  Two hundred seventy-five consecutive patients treated with bone marrow transplantation (BMT) during a 9-year interval were analyzed for the incidence and etiology of nosocomial pneumonia.  Cases included adults who acquired pneumonia during the first hospitalization period within 100 days of the transplant.  Fifty-five (20%) of the 275 patients developed nosocomial pneumonia, and the crude mortality during the hospitalization period was 74.5%.  An etiology was established in 67.3% (37 of 55) of episodes.  Thirty-six percent (20 of 55) of the cases were caused by Aspergillus species, either as the sole agent (15 patients) or in association with others.  The crude mortality for patients with Aspergillus pneumonia was 95%.  Elimination of 90% of Aspergillus cases in our unit would have the effect of reducing the overall attack rate of nosocomial pneumonia to 13.4% and the associated crude mortality to 43.4%.
Nasal midline masses in infants and children. Dermoids, encephaloceles, and gliomas.  Nasal dermoids, gliomas, and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development.  We have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions.  In view of the potential intracranial connection, patients are at risk for intracranial infection, and early surgical correction is thus imperative.  Neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement.
Comparison of functional activities between IgG1 and IgM class-switched human monoclonal antibodies reactive with group B streptococci or Escherichia coli K1.  The influence of valence and heavy chain on antibody activity was investigated using transfectoma-derived, class-switched IgG1 and IgM human monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) reactive with the bacterial pathogens Escherichia coli K1 and group B Streptococcus species.  IgG-IgM pairs were compared in vitro for antigen binding and opsonic activities and in vivo for protective efficacy in neonatal rats.  For the anti-E.  coli pair, the IgM MAb was 1000-fold more potent in all assay formats.  Importantly, the 50% protection dose (PD50) of the IgM MAb was 10-20 ng/rat, while 100 micrograms of the IgG MAb was only minimally protective.  For the group B streptococcal MAbs, the IgM was 100- and 4500-fold more potent in binding and opsonization assays, respectively.  However, while 20 micrograms of IgM protected neonatal rats, 100 micrograms of IgG MAb was partly protective.  These experiments demonstrate the utility of recombinant DNA technology for creating a panel of antibodies that may aid in selecting potential immunotherapeutic candidates.
Extremely high incidence of antibiotic resistance in clinical isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae in Hungary.  An epidemiologic survey of antibiotic resistance among pneumococcal isolates collected during 1988 and 1989 in Hungary indicated that as many as 58% of all isolates and 70% of isolates from children were resistant to penicillin.  These figures surpass even the highest values reported thus far for Spain and South Africa for the same period.  Almost or more than 70% of the penicillin-resistant isolates were also resistant to tetracycline, erythromycin, and cotrimoxazole and approximately 30% to chloramphenicol.  Intravenous administration of ampicillin (30 mg/kg) did not interfere with the growth in the cerebrospinal fluid of three resistant strains introduced into the rabbit model of experimental meningitis.  No resistant strain showed beta-lactamase activity.  A representative highly resistant strain contained altered penicillin-binding proteins (low penicillin affinities and abnormal molecular sizes) and was also resistant to the lytic and killing effects of penicillin.
Oral hairy leukoplakia in HIV infection: a diagnostic pitfall.  Twenty-nine human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients with white, nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue, clinically suggestive of oral hairy leukoplakia (HL), were studied.  In particular, the value of local antifungal therapy in establishing the diagnosis of HL was investigated.  In 15 patients (52%) the lesions could be ultimately attributed to a candidal infection of the tongue.  In 10 of the remaining 14 patients, a biopsy was obtained from lesions persisting after local antifungal treatment.  In all biopsy specimens, the diagnosis of HL was confirmed by histopathologic examination and the demonstration of Epstein-Barr virus DNA by polymerase chain reaction, Southern blot hybridization, and DNA in situ hybridization.  The present data confirm that the diagnosis of HL in HIV-infected patients cannot be reliably made on clinical criteria alone, but requires histopathologic confirmation including the demonstration of Epstein-Barr virus DNA, preferably by DNA in situ hybridization.  However, with regard to the differential diagnosis of white, nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue in HIV-infected patients, the present study suggests that persistence of lesions after local antifungal therapy is highly suggestive of HL.
The butterfly rash and the malar flush. What diseases do these signs reflect?  The butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders.  Systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs.  In pellagra, symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body.  Erysipelas produces brawny, fiery red facial lesions, and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption.  Lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern, and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face.  Carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration, and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction.  Deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation.
Lipid infusion increases oxygen consumption similarly in septic and nonseptic patients.  This investigation compared the metabolic effects of lipid infusion in five septic and five nonseptic patients.  Oxygen consumption was determined by indirect calorimetry over 1 h of rest and during 2 h when Intralipid (20%) was infused [166 mL/h; 23 kJ/min (5.5 kcal/min)].  Septic patients had a resting metabolic rate 17% higher than that of their nonseptic control subjects and a significant (P less than 0.05) rise (13%) in oxygen uptake was measured in both groups of subjects during the 2-h infusion of lipid.  Preinfusion respiratory quotient (RQ) was 7% higher in the septic patients (P less than 0.05), and during the infusion period RQ decreased similarly (approximately 6%; P less than 0.05) in both groups.  Plasma catecholamines were elevated in the septic patients preinfusion and the concentrations remained unaltered during the infusion.  Norepinephrine rose significantly in the nonseptic group with the lipid infusion.  The results show that sepsis has little or no influence on the characteristic rise in metabolic rate that occurs with intravenous lipid.
Effects of high-dose IgG on survival of surgical patients with sepsis scores of 20 or greater.  Sixty-two consecutive septic surgical patients receiving standard multimodal intensive care unit treatment who developed a sepsis score of 20 or greater (day 0) were randomized to receive 0.4 g/kg of either intravenous IgG (29 patients) or human albumin (controls; 33 patients), repeated on days +1 and +5, in a prospective, double-blind, multicenter study.  The two groups were similar in age, initial sepsis scores, and acute physiology and chronic health evaluation II score.  A significantly lower mortality was recorded in the IgG-treated group (38%) than in controls (67%).  Septic shock was the cause of death in 7% of IgG-treated patients and in 33% of controls.  The results of this study indicate that high-dose IgG improves survival and decreases death from septic shock in surgical patients with a sepsis score of 20 or greater.
A pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside, "spread-out" or "up-front," in continuation therapy for childhood non-T, non-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A Pediatric Oncology Group study.  One hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-T-, non-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were treated in a Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate (MTX) and cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) (1 g/m2 each) were added to a "backbone" of standard continuation therapy.  The dose and sequence of MTX/Ara-C administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between MTX and Ara-C.  Poor-risk patients (n = 49) were assigned to "up-front" therapy, in which the MTX/Ara-C courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission.  Standard-risk patients (n = 57) were assigned to "spread-out" therapy, in which the MTX/Ara-C courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment.  Toxicity after intermediate-dose MTX/Ara-C, principally neutropenia and fever, was judged significant but manageable.  Unexpectedly, the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after "spread-out" therapy (38%) than after "up-front" therapy (6%).  At 4 years, the Kaplan-Meier estimate of event-free survival (EFS) is 71% (+/- 7%) for standard-risk patients and 53% (+/- 8%) for poor-risk patients.  The results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose MTX/Ara-C in additional studies.
Failure of therapy with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to modify the course of sepsis-induced lung injury.  Oxidant-induced injury of the pulmonary microvasculature reportedly contributes to an increase in microvascular permeability and pulmonary hypertension, both of which are principal features of acute lung injury (ALI).  We tested the hypothesis that antioxidant therapy with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB), initiated in awake sheep after the development of sepsis-induced ALI, would ameliorate the progression of these lesions.  DHB has many actions that suggested to us the potential for demonstrating benefit in ALI complicating sepsis; it is a nontoxic hydroxyl-radical scavenger that also inhibits the cyclooxygenase pathway and acts as a weak iron chelator.  In preliminary experiments, we demonstrated that pretreatment with DHB prevented an increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressure, plasma thromboxane A2, measured as its metabolite thromboxane B2, and lymph total protein clearance that otherwise followed an infusion of zymosan-activated plasma (ZAP) in sheep.  In subsequent experiments, 12 additional sheep were rendered septic by cecal ligation and perforation.  Twenty-four to 36 h after cecal ligation and perforation, an increase in lung microvascular permeability was confirmed, because pulmonary lymph flow had increased by 82% while the mean lymph-to-plasma total protein ratio was unchanged from baseline.  At this point, six sheep were then treated with parenteral DHB and six with DHB vehicle for the subsequent 24 h.  In contrast to the demonstrated benefit of DHB pretreatment in preventing ALI secondary to an infusion of ZAP, the progressive increase in lymph total protein clearance that complicated septic lung injury in the DHB vehicle group throughout this 24-h study period was not ameliorated in the DHB treatment group.  However, DHB did prevent a modest increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressures that was demonstrated in the DHB vehicle group throughout this 24-h treatment period.  Although pretreatment prevented ALI after a ZAP infusion, we conclude that DHB only incompletely modified disease progression when administered after the onset of sepsis-induced ALI because it ameliorated the pulmonary hypertensive response without concurrently modifying an increase in lung microvascular fluid flux.
Breast milk and neonatal necrotising enterocolitis   In a prospective multicentre study on 926 preterm infants formally assigned to their early diet, necrotising enterocolitis developed in 51 (5.5%).  Mortality was 26% in stringently confirmed cases.  In exclusively formula-fed babies confirmed disease was 6-10 times more common than in those fed breast milk alone and 3 times more common than in those who received formula plus breast milk.  Pasteurised donor milk seemed to be as protective as raw maternal milk.  Among babies born at more than 30 weeks' gestation confirmed necrotising enterocolitis was rare in those whose diet included breast milk; it was 20 times more common in those fed formula only.  Other risk factors included very low gestational age, respiratory disease, umbilical artery catheterisation, and polycythaemia.  In formula-fed but not breast-milk-fed infants, delayed enteral feeding was associated with a lower frequency of necrotising enterocolitis.  With the fall in the use of breast milk in British neonatal units, exclusive formula feeding could account for an estimated 500 extra cases of necrotising enterocolitis each year.  About 100 of these infants would die.
Spirochetal infection of the central nervous system.  Four spirochetal diseases frequently involve the central nervous system: syphilis, leptospirosis, relapsing fever, and Lyme borreliosis.  In particular, syphilis and Lyme borreliosis are increasing problems.  During the spirochetemic phase there is seeding of the nervous system.  After a quiescent latent period, there may be late disease flareups producing a variety of neurologic syndromes.  Cerebrospinal fluid examination is very helpful in these infections.
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Relation to Helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion.  Since Helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer, infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease.  We postulated that if H.  pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer, it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another, specific etiology, such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.  Gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis.  All subjects, who were matched for age and sex, had undergone elective gastric resections.  Gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and Giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis.  The frequency of H.  pylori in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (8/18) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer (16/18; P less than 0.02).  Moreover, chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer (P less than 0.01).  In Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, peak acid output was lower in patients positive (median 22 meq/30 min) compared to those negative for H.  pylori (median 32 meq/30 min; P less than 0.02) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for H.  pylori (P less than 0.05).  H.  pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology, such as acid hypersecretion in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.  H.  pylori infection in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion.
Nosocomial Legionnaires' disease and use of medication nebulizers.  Guidelines for the prevention of nosocomial pneumonia specify that only sterile fluids should be used for aerosol therapy; however, this recommendation may not be uniformly followed.  Thirteen patients with nosocomial pneumonia due to Legionella pneumophila serogroup 3 (Lp3) were identified at a community hospital in the period from 1984 through 1988; 12 patients (92%) had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; and 9 patients (69%) died.  An epidemiologic investigation suggested that the use of nebulizers to deliver medication was associated with acquiring legionnaires' disease.  The hospital potable water system was contaminated with Lp3, and a survey indicated that tap water was commonly used to wash medication nebulizers.  Lp3 in respirable-size droplets was isolated from aerosols generated by a nebulizer containing Lp3 at one-tenth the concentration found in the hospital potable water.  These findings support the recommendation that only sterile fluids be used for filling or cleaning respiratory care equipment and suggest that this guideline is not universally followed.
Shunt surgery for hydrocephalus in tuberculous meningitis: a long-term follow-up study.  Hydrocephalus is a common complication of tuberculous meningitis.  Case studies of 114 patients with tuberculous meningitis and hydrocephalus, who underwent shunt surgery between July, 1975, and June, 1986, were reviewed to evaluate the long-term outcome and to outline a management protocol for these patients based on the results.  Seven factors were studied in each case: 1) age at admission; 2) grade on admission (I to IV, classified by the authors; Grade I being the best and Grade IV being the worst); 3) duration of alteration of sensorium; 4) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cell content at initial examination; 5) CSF protein levels at initial examination; 6) number of shunt revisions required; and 7) the necessity for bilateral shunts.  During a long-term follow-up period ranging from 6 months to 13 years (mean 45.6 months), the mortality rate was 20% for patients in Grade I; 34.7% for patients in Grade II; 51.9% for patients in Grade III; and 100% for patients in Grade IV.  Only the grade at the time of admission was found to be statistically significant in determining final outcome (p less than 0.001).  Based on these results, the authors advocate early shunt surgery for Grade I and II patients.  For patients in Grade III, surgery may be performed either if external ventricular drainage causes an improvement in sensorium or without selection.  All patients in Grade IV should undergo external ventricular drainage and only those who show a significant change in their neurological status within 24 to 48 hours of drainage, should have shunt surgery.
Syphilitic meningomyelitis.  A 28-year-old nonimmunocompromised man developed secondary syphilis confirmed by serum and CSF findings.  His course was complicated by chorioretinitis, extensive skin lesions, and spastic paraparesis secondary to syphilitic meningomyelitis.  MRI of the spinal cord was strikingly abnormal.
Successful treatment of disseminated cutaneous cytomegalic inclusion disease associated with Hodgkin's disease.  A case of disseminated cutaneous cytomegalic inclusion disease associated with Hodgkin's disease is described.  The patient had a diffuse eruption of pruritic, erosive erythematous nodules.  Histologically, many inclusion bodies were observed in perivascular areas of the skin lesions.  Immunohistologically, the inclusion bodies positively stained with both anticytomegalovirus antibody and anti-factor VIII-related antibody.  On electron microscopy many virus particles and dense bodies were found in the area where inclusion bodies were observed.  Treatment with high-dose intravenous acyclovir and a large amount of immunoglobulin resulted in prompt healing of the skin lesions.  Subsequently, the patient's Hodgkin's disease was well controlled on chemotherapy.  The patient steadily improved without relapse of skin lesions 1 year after antiviral therapy was administered.
Management of post-tuberculous complex aspergilloma of the lung: role of surgical resection.  Of 14 patients with complex aspergilloma complicating healed tuberculosis, 12 underwent lobectomy or pneumonectomy for recurrent haemoptysis.  No deaths occurred, though one patient needed re-exploration for bleeding.  There was no postoperative worsening of dyspnoea despite a mean forced vital capacity (FVC) of 60% predicted for the patients undergoing surgery and of 20% predicted for two patients with severe restrictive defects, perhaps owing to the fact that there was little or no function in the resected part of the lung, as shown by preoperative isotope ventilation-perfusion scanning, and that patients were under the age of 50 and generally fit.  There has been no recurrence of haemoptysis during follow up, which has been from 12 to 33 months.  Surgical resection, provided that cases are carefully selected, offers the best chance of cure with low mortality and morbidity.
Increase in native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci: an Anglo-French clinical and microbiological study.  Native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci has become more common.  A study of 35 cases showed that the infections were usually acquired in the community and occurred in men (mean age 51 years).  A pre-existing cardiac abnormality (mitral leaflet prolapse in a third of patients) was detected in 26 (74%).  The source of the organisms in the community acquired infections was assumed to be the skin, though lesions were seldom demonstrated; most hospital acquired infections resulted from intravenous devices.  Community acquired organisms were usually sensitive to penicillin, whereas those acquired in hospital were often multiresistant.  Most infections were caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis.  The frequency of acute presentation (26%) and of major neurological abnormality (23%), together with the need for valve replacement (often emergency) (51%) and the mortality (36%) suggest that coagulase negative staphylococci can be virulent aggressive pathogens, mimicking Staphylococcus aureus.
Comparative study of the effects of four cephalosporins against Escherichia coli in vitro and in vivo.  A thigh muscle infection induced with Escherichia coli in irradiated mice was used as a model to compare the in vivo pharmacodynamics of the antibacterial effect of four cephalosporins (i.e., cefepime, ceftriaxone, ceftazidime, and cefoperazone) with the in vitro antibacterial pharmacodynamics of these drugs.  The following in vitro pharmacodynamic parameters were determined: the maximum effect as a measure for efficacy, the 50% effective concentration as a parameter for potency, and the slope of the concentration-effect relationship.  For analysis of the in vivo antibacterial pharmacodynamics, the same parameters were applied for the dose instead of the concentration.  For the detection of a relationship between concentration and antibacterial effect in vivo, we determined the pharmacokinetics of the four cephalosporins in the plasma of mice.  The results showed that, in general, there is a direct relationship between the in vivo and in vitro pharmacodynamics of these cephalosporins.  The maximum effects of cefepime, ceftazidime, and cefoperazone were approximately similar in vivo and in vitro.  The sequence of potency of these drugs was, in descending order, cefepime, ceftazidime, and cefoperazone.  Ceftriaxone differed from the other three cephalosporins in that it displayed unexpected in vivo pharmacodynamics.  Ceftriaxone was just as efficacious as the other three in vitro, but its maximum effect in vivo was much lower.  This relatively low maximum effect of ceftriaxone in vivo was not explained by the pharmacokinetic characteristics of the drug.  From the present results it can be concluded that the in vitro efficacy of cephalosporins does not necessarily have a predictive value for the in vivo efficacy.
Mycobacterium paratuberculosis and Crohn's disease.  The possible aetiological role of Mycobacterium paratuberculosis in Crohn's disease was investigated.  The immunological response was studied using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, and immunocytochemistry.  The antibody response to two protoplasmic antigen preparations of M paratuberculosis in the sera of patients with inflammatory bowel disease was measured by ELISA.  IgG and IgM antibodies to these antigens were measured in serum samples from 52 patients with Crohn's disease, 15 patients with ulcerative colitis, and 41 control patients without inflammatory bowel disease.  Although there was wide variation in the concentrations of antibody detected, patients with Crohn's disease had concentrations that were not significantly different from those of the other two groups.  In addition, mycobacterial antigens were separated by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the immune response to each antigen was then examined separately and assayed for IgG and IgM in 10 patients from each of the three groups.  An indirect peroxidase test was also used to detect M paratuberculosis in sections of tissue from 18 patients with Crohn's disease and 10 with ulcerative colitis.  The results were negative in all cases.  This study does not support a role for M paratuberculosis in Crohn's disease.
The effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests.  Serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation, which so often accompany systemic illness, have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy.  We have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests: a decreased serum T3 concentration; normal or, in critically ill patients, a low total serum T4 level; and a normal free T4 concentration.  Another, less frequent pattern (high total and free T4 with a normal serum T3) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient.  With the recent advent of sensitive assays for TSH and better methods for serum free T4, it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients; the vast majority are euthyroid.  Certain drugs confound the picture.  The most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids, both of which suppress TSH secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism.  Other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices (e.g., amiodarone).  Knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness, starvation, and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease.
Enhancement of HIV-1 cytocidal effects in CD4+ lymphocytes by the AIDS-associated mycoplasma.  Coinfection with Mycoplasma fermentans (incognitus strain) enhances the ability of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) to induce cytopathic effects on human T lymphocytes in vitro.  Syncytium formation of HIV-infected T cells was essentially eliminated in the presence of M.  fermentans (incognitus strain), despite prominent cell death.  However, replication and production of HIV-1 particles continued during the coinfection.  Furthermore, the supernatant from cultures coinfected with HIV-1 and the mycoplasma contained a factor that inhibited the standard reverse transcriptase enzyme assay.  The modification of the biological properties of HIV-1 by coinfection with mycoplasma may be involved in the pathogenesis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
Acute rheumatic fever in West Virginia. Not just a disease of children.  Rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community.  We describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) in West Virginia.  This is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of ARF in the Ohio Valley area in the last 4 years.  In contrast to the other reports, nearly two thirds of our cases of ARF were in adults, more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of ARF.  In these adults with recurrences, none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation.  Carditis was present in seven adults, two without a history of carditis.  Arthritis was present in all adult patients.  These data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of ARF and document that ARF is not simply a disease of childhood.  Furthermore, our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of ARF, especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection.
Nosocomial infections due to Xanthomonas maltophilia (Pseudomonas maltophilia) in patients with cancer.  From December 1985 to May 1986, Xanthomonas maltophilia (formerly known as Pseudomonas maltophilia) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution; 52 isolates of X.  maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time.  The records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study.  Twelve (71%) of the 17 infected and nine (50%) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy.  Eleven of 17 patients (three of seven with septicemia, three of five with pneumonia, three with urinary tract infection, and two with wound infection) responded to antimicrobial therapy.  Microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of X.  maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit.  X.  maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients, especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy.
Human cytomegalovirus viraemia in HIV-1-seropositive patients at various clinical stages of infection.  Eighty-two HIV-1-seropositive subjects were examined for the presence and quantification of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) in peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) by polymerase chain reaction, culture and immunofluorescence in order to investigate the relationship between viraemia and immunosuppression.  Patients were divided into three groups: (1) asymptomatic subjects with greater than 400 x 10(6)/l CD4 lymphocytes (n = 30); (2) asymptomatic subjects with less than 400 x 10(6)/l of CD4 lymphocytes and zidovudine (n = 20), and (3) AIDS-related complex (ARC)/AIDS patients on zidovudine (n = 32).  Evidence of HCMV infection in circulating PMNL was found in 15 out of 29 ARC/AIDS patients examined (51.7%), whereas no infection was detected among the 50 asymptomatic HIV-1-seropositive subjects.  HCMV-related symptoms were found only where the number of infected PMNL was greater than 50 per 2 x 10(5) cells.
Urodynamic morbidity and dysuria prophylaxis.  A group of 324 patients received prophylactic treatment with either sodium bicarbonate, potassium citrate or a glucose placebo following urodynamic studies.  Urine was screened for infection both before and after testing and the incidence of dysuria assessed by postal questionnaire; 63% of patients experienced some degree of dysuria and this was severe and prolonged in 6.3%, the majority of whom were male.  Neither sodium bicarbonate nor potassium citrate was any more effective in preventing dysuria than placebo.  The presence of severe prolonged dysuria was not associated with a urinary tract infection or with any particular urodynamic diagnosis.
Decrease in mean platelet survival time in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (APSGN).  In an attempt to study further the possible participation of platelets in the pathogenesis of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (APSGN), we studied the platelet survival time, as an index of platelet activation, in 22 patients with APSGN.  Mean platelet survival time was computed from the disappearance of radioactivity from blood, sampled serially after injection of autologous 51Cr-labelled platelets.  C1q solid phase ELISA and conglutinin (K) solid phase ELISA were used to measure the serum levels of immune complexes.  The platelet survival time in APSGN patients was 113 +/- 10 h vs 197 +/- 10 h in the control group (p less than 0.001); 68% of the patients had a shortened platelet survival, lower than 95% confidence limit.  There was a significant increase in the platelet survival in the six patients that were studied after recovery from acute nephritic syndrome.  There was no significant association between the mean platelet times survival and CICs (circulating immune complexes).  Similarly, no significant correlation was found between the mean platelet lifespan and the severity of the glomerular disease, as assessed by the serum creatinine level and the proteinuria.  These results support evidence of platelet activation and consumption in APSGN and we suggest that this activation occurs in the glomeruli capillary wall, due to platelet-vascular wall interaction.
Hemodynamic effects of lobar pulmonary artery occlusion in a porcine sepsis model.  We induced severe pulmonary hypertension and acute lung injury in 6 pigs by Pseudomonas aeruginosa infusion.  We studied the effect of pulmonary artery catheter inflation of a pulmonary artery catheter balloon in the left lower lobar pulmonary artery was accompanied by a significant (p less than 0.05, paired t test) increase in pulmonary artery pressure, a decrease in left atrial pressure, a decrease in cardiac output, and a decrease in mean arterial pressure.  No significant changes occurred when the catheter was advanced into the wedged position without balloon inflation.  Balloon inflation had no significant effect on these variables before bacterial infusion.  We conclude that with sufficiently severe pulmonary hypertension in association with diffuse lung injury, lobar pulmonary artery occlusion may cause alterations in cardiac output and left atrial pressure.  This may confuse interpretation of pulmonary artery catheter measurements.
Screening for sexually transmitted diseases by primary care physicians.  The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome epidemic has drawn attention to screening for sexually transmitted diseases by primary care physicians.  A telephone survey of primary care physicians in an area with a high incidence of STDs (Washington, DC) to ascertain the determinants and the extent of screening and counseling for STDs was completed in 1987.  Ninety-nine physicians (33 internists, 38 obstetrician/gynecologists, and 28 family/general practitioners), representing 61% of those eligible, completed the interview.  One third (39.4%) were screening for gonorrhea, more than one half (57.5%) for syphilis, and almost all (94%) had tested at least one individual for human immunodeficiency virus infection.  Analysis suggested that concomitant screening for hepatitis B was significantly and positively associated with screening for gonorrhea and syphilis.  Less than half (45.9%) of the physicians asked new patients about their sexual practices.  Physicians should take histories of sexual practices and do more preventive counseling.
Acute epididymitis: why patient and consort must be investigated.  In this prospective study of 49 patients under 35 years of age with clinically diagnosed epididymitis, detailed microbiological investigation identified an infective cause in 67%.  Chlamydia trachomatis was the commonest agent, present in 25 patients, but in 12 of these detection was based solely on raised antibody titres; 20 of the 28 female consorts screened were partners of men with chlamydial epididymitis and 80% of them were also positive for this infection.  Isolating the micro-organism from 14 of 16 consorts indicated active infection despite the negative swabs from the men.  If this important infection is to be adequately treated we recommend that all patients in this age group with epididymitis and their partners should be referred to a specialist unit with access to full chlamydia laboratory facilities.
Bilateral emphysematous pyelonephritis.  Emphysematous pyelonephritis is an uncommon and serious infection associated with gas-forming coliform bacteria.  Bilateral involvement is rare with only 10 reported cases in the English literature.  Prompt and aggressive management is required to salvage these patients.  Preservation of renal function using broad-spectrum antibiotics and surgical drainage provide the greatest benefit to these patients.  Three new cases are presented with a brief review of the results of management in the reported cases.
Prevalence of HIV infection among patients with leprosy in African countries and Yemen.  Screening for human immunodeficiency viruses types 1 and 2 (HIV-1 and HIV-2) antibodies was carried out in the serum of 1,245 leprous patients and 5,731 controls selected in nine different centers from the Congo, Ivory Coast, Senegal, and Yemen Arab Republic.  In Yemen, all sera were negative.  In the Congo, the seropositivity among patients and controls was, respectively, 3.8 and 5.2%; in Senegal, it was 1.3 and 0.6%; and in the Ivory Coast 4.8 and 3.9%.  Differences were not statistically significant, even considering lepromatous or tuberculoid forms (3.6% and 3.7%, respectively).  HIV-2 antibodies were only detected in subjects from the Ivory Coast and Senegal.  Using appropriate criteria for seropositivity (confirmation by Western blot, reactivity to HIV envelope glycoproteins) and a large selection of patients (several countries with several centers), it appears that leprosy (and specially the lepromatous form) is not a factor for HIV infection.
TestPack Chlamydia for chlamydial detection in physicians' offices.  Chlamydia trachomatis is widely recognized as the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease.  It is often asymptomatic and can lead to serious sequelae, including infertility and ectopic pregnancy.  For this reason, testing of patients at risk is a necessary health care measure.  This study compared TestPack Chlamydia to Chlamydiazyme for the direct detection of chlamydial antigen in endocervical specimens.  One thousand three hundred seventy-six patients seen in 47 private practice offices of obstetrician-gynecologists and family practitioners were screened.  TestPack Chlamydia, a 25-minute enzyme immunoassay, had a specificity of 98.6% and sensitivity of 90% when compared with Chlamydiazyme, a four-hour laboratory test.  The overall prevalence of chlamydial infection in this population was 3.6%.  The prevalence among patients less than or equal to 24 years of age was 7.6% higher among subgroups with symptoms and other identified risk factors.  The positive predictive value of TestPack Chlamydia (83.7%) makes it an accurate assay for testing women at risk for chlamydial infections.
Chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease.  Chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease may be caused by infections, emphysema, cystic fibrosis, lung cancer, sarcoidosis and rheumatologic syndromes.  The diagnostic evaluation includes a complete history, a physical examination, a chest radiograph, and sputum examination and culture.  In some cases, computed tomographic scanning and biopsy are required.
A case of neonatal tetanus.  The morbidity and mortality from neonatal tetanus are preventable.  It is largely a disease of developing countries.  This single case of neonatal tetanus in southern Florida must serve as an indicator for the need for health care professionals to evaluate the degree of utilization of maternal health services and the impact of immunization programs for those women at risk, in this case, women who have migrated from developing countries.
Recombinant fusion protein identified by lepromatous sera mimics native Mycobacterium leprae in T-cell responses across the leprosy spectrum.  Pooled polyvalent sera from lepromatous leprosy patients were used to screen a lambda gt11 recombinant DNA expression library of Mycobacterium leprae in order to identify the relevant antigens recognized by the human immune response.  Of the 300,000 phages screened, 4 clones were identified that coded for fusion proteins of the same molecular mass.  The fusion protein from clone LSR2 was tested for immunoreactivity in assays using peripheral blood cells and sera from 11 laboratory personnel and 105 patients across the leprosy spectrum.  LSR2 protein appears to be predominantly a T-cell antigen.  It evokes similar lymphoproliferative responses as the native bacillus both at the individual level and in the leprosy spectrum as a whole.  Though only 50% of patient sera with anti-M.  leprae antibodies reacted with the fusion protein, the pattern of reactivity in the antibody responses was also similar for the various clinical types.  The coding regions of clones LSR1 and LSR2 are identical.  They show no homology with sequences stored in data banks and encode a protein of 89 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of approximately 10 kDa.
Sepsis-induced lung injury and the effects of ibuprofen pretreatment. Analysis of early alveolar events via repetitive bronchoalveolar lavage.  Current knowledge of alveolar pathophysiology during early sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) and the role of resident alveolar macrophages (AM) in mediating alveolar inflammatory events during sepsis is limited.  Further, the effects of ibuprofen pretreatment upon alveolar pathophysiology and AM function during early sepsis-induced ALI is unclear.  Utilizing repetitive bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) in a porcine model of sepsis-induced ALI, we studied changes in alveolar cellular constituents, BAL protein content and molecular composition, and AM superoxide anion (O2-.) generation during early sepsis.  The neutrophil percentage of recovered alveolar cells (17 +/- 8%, t = 300 min versus 2 +/- 1%, t = 0; p = 0.06) and the bronchoalveolar lavage total protein content (493 +/- 110 micrograms/ml, t = 300 min versus 109 +/- 18 micrograms/ml, t = 0; p less than 0.05) increased in septic animals.  Increases in BAL fluid total protein were primarily due to low-molecular-weight plasma protein, indicating relative preservation of alveolar-capillary membrane size selectivity.  Alveolar macrophages harvested following 300 min of sepsis generated significantly less O2-.  following phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) stimulation compared to AM harvested at baseline.  Ibuprofen pretreatment of septic animals completely blocked leakage of plasma proteins into the alveoli and attenuated neutrophil migration but did not prevent downregulation of AM O2-.  generation.  Increased alveolar-capillary membrane permeability, neutrophil migration into the alveoli, and downregulation of AM oxidant generation occur within hours of the onset of sepsis.  Ibuprofen pretreatment significantly attenuates early sepsis-induced ALI without altering sepsis-induced AM dysfunction.
Evaluation of two rapid group B streptococcal antigen tests in labor and delivery patients.  Two rapid group B streptococcal antigen tests were compared with nonselective blood agar culture in 1062 unselected patients admitted to labor and delivery.  Vaginal specimens taken from each patient on admission were used to perform each of two rapid tests and corresponding cultures.  The rapid tests were the Streptex latex agglutination assay and the Equate Strep B test, which uses a solid-phase immunoassay.  Overall, 105 patients (9.9%) had at least one positive culture.  The sensitivities for the rapid tests were 15.1% for Streptex and 21.5% for Equate.  Specificities were 99.3 and 98.7%, respectively.  Sensitivity was minimally increased in the setting of ruptured membranes for both tests.  Likewise, use of separate swabs for streaking the culture plate and performing the rapid test increased the sensitivity, but this was not significant for either test.  In control experiments, the limit of sensitivity of both rapid tests was 5 x 10(6) colony-forming units.  We conclude that at present, these tests are not sensitive enough for routine use in this type of clinical setting.
Cefmetazole and cefonicid. Comparative efficacy and safety in preventing postoperative infections after vaginal and abdominal hysterectomy.  A single 1-g dose of cefmetazole was compared with a single 1-g dose of cefonicid for prophylaxis in vaginal and abdominal hysterectomy to determine their efficacy and safety.  The antibiotics were administered intramuscularly 15-90 minutes before the incision was made.  Cefmetazole and cefonicid had similar activity against most of the aerobic organisms recovered, but cefmetazole was significantly more active against anaerobic gram-negative microorganisms.  The patterns of regrowth of vaginal flora were similar in the two treatment groups.  Patient demographic characteristics and surgical procedures were similar in both groups.  The difference in primary prophylactic failure (e.g., cuff cellulitis) with the two study drugs (1 of 53 [1.9%] with cefmetazole and 2 of 28 [7.1%] with cefonicid) did not reach statistical significance, and the results were similar for the two routes of hysterectomy.  Cefmetazole, at a dose of 1 g intramuscularly preoperatively, is a safe and effective agent for prophylaxis during hysterectomy.
Increased cell adherence of group B streptococci from preterm infants with neonatal sepsis.  Most women with group B streptococcus cervical colonization have uncomplicated pregnancies, but about 1% experience preterm premature rupture of membranes (PROM) followed by neonatal group B streptococcal sepsis.  In such cases, streptococcal adherence to and penetration of the membranes may be an important step in the pathogenesis.  In the present study, chorionic epithelial cells were incubated with group B streptococci isolated from either children developing sepsis after preterm PROM (complicated pregnancies) or from uncomplicated pregnancies.  Incubation periods varied.  The numbers of adherent bacteria per chorionic epithelial cell were counted by microscopic examination.  After 70 minutes' incubation, the number of adherent group B streptococci in complicated pregnancies was 38, compared with 14 in uncomplicated pregnancies (P less than .001).  This difference in vitro might reflect the virulence of group B streptococci.
Utility of bronchoscopic sampling techniques for cryptococcal disease in AIDS.  Although cryptococcal pneumonia is a well recognized complication of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, optimal diagnostic approaches remain to be defined.  During a 32-month period (October 1984 to June 1987), 11 patients were diagnosed with CP at our institution.  The diagnosis was established in all 11 patients from specimens obtained via fiberoptic bronchoscopy (ten) and/or double-lumen catheter lavage (one).  Direct stains of sedimented bronchoalveolar lavage were positive for organisms characteristic of Cryptococcus neoformans in nine of 11 patients.  Transbronchial biopsies were positive (special histologic stains) in six of eight patients; bronchial washings were positive (direct smear) in seven of ten patients, the bronchial brushings were positive on stain in six of nine patients, and in one patient, a Wang transbronchial needle aspirate was positive on stain.  Fungal cultures were positive on the BAL in seven of 11 patients, and on the bronchial washings in four of ten patients; the TBBx culture samples were all negative (zero of three).  The serum cryptococcal antigen titer was elevated (median = 1:1024) in all eight patients in which it was assayed.  Our data suggest that BAL and bronchial washings have a combined sensitivity on smear equal to that of TBBx and superior to that of TBBx fungal culture.  The TBBx does not appear to be necessary in this setting.  In addition, an elevated serum cryptococcal antigen titer appears to be an important adjunct in the evaluation of pulmonary infiltrates in AIDS.
Streptococcal antibody cross-reactivity with HLA-DR4+VE B-lymphocytes. Basis of the DR4 associated genetic predisposition to rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease? [published erratum appears in Br J Rheumatol 1991 Jun;30(3):222]  B-lymphocytes obtained from patients with either rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease and from normal subjects were reacted with serum obtained from rabbits immunized with streptococcal cell wall antigen.  The presence of cytotoxicity was sought using an inverted phase microscope after differential uptake of eosin dye.  The serum was found to be significantly more cytotoxic to HLA-DR4 containing cells of both patients and normals compared with DR4 negative cells (P less than 0.0001).
Acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children.  STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that quantitation of either C-reactive protein (CRP) or the total peripheral WBC count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children.  DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection, signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure, levels of CRP in serum, and total peripheral WBC counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses.  SETTING: Emergency department and acute care "walk-in" clinic of an urban, university-affiliated general hospital.  PARTICIPANTS: 160 previously well, acutely febrile infants and children (median age, 6 months).  RESULTS: The prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6%.  Sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17.  Sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81.  Of the acute phase reactants, sensitivity of a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL was 0.80, while that of a total peripheral WBC count of more than 15,000/mm3 was 0.40.  The presence of signs and/or a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00).  The absence of signs and a CRP level of 1.0 mg/dL or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.47).  Of 125 children without meningeal signs, the combination of symptoms and a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00).  The absence of these symptoms and/or a CRP level of 1.0 mg/dL or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.66).  CONCLUSION: Quantitation of CRP but not the total peripheral WBC count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis.  Measurement of CRP in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child.
Effect of splenectomy on morbidity and survival following curative gastrectomy for carcinoma.  We performed a retrospective analysis of 392 patients who underwent curative resection of gastric adenocarcinoma to evaluate the impact of splenectomy on survival from gastric cancer and postoperative morbidity.  Twelve factors, including splenectomy, were associated with a poor prognosis by univariate analysis.  Multivariate analysis identified six of these factors, but not splenectomy, as independently predictive of death due to gastric cancer.  The apparent adverse effect of splenectomy was due to its association with other significant risk factors.  Postoperative complications occurred more commonly in patients who underwent splenectomy than in those who did not (45% vs 21%); patients in the splenectomy group also had a higher percentage of infectious complications than those in the nonsplenectomy group (75% vs 47%).  We conclude that splenectomy has no direct influence on survival, but that it increases the morbidity of curative gastrectomy and should be avoided unless the spleen is close to or invaded by the tumor.
Prostatitis.  Several distinct types of prostatitis, or prostatitis syndromes, are now recognized.  The most common forms include acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis, nonbacterial prostatitis, and prostatodynia.  Bacterial prostatitis, caused mainly by coliform bacteria, Pseudomonas, and Enterococcus faecalis, is often difficult to cure and usually requires extended therapy (4-16 weeks) with an appropriate antimicrobial agent that achieves therapeutic levels in the prostatic secretory system.  About 90% of men with prostatitis have nonbacterial prostatitis or prostatodynia.  Nonbacterial prostatitis is an inflammation of the prostate of unknown cause.  Patients with prostatodynia typically have sterile cultures and normal prostatic secretions but demonstrate an acquired voiding dysfunction on videourodynamic testing.  Because nonbacterial types of prostatitis have no recognized infectious cause, treatment using antimicrobial agents is ineffective and unwarranted.
Comparative study of Legionella pneumophila and other nosocomial-acquired pneumonias.  We studied, in a prospective way, the characteristics of definitively diagnosed nosocomially acquired pneumonias in our hospital over 36 months.  Out of 55 cases, 27 were due to Legionella pneumophila and 28 to other, non-Legionella bacteria.  The cases of legionellosis concentrated in July, August, and December.  The only risk factors that showed significant differences (p less than 0.05) were general anesthesia and surgery and immunosuppressive disease, which were more frequent in the non-Legionella group, as were chronic liver disease and lowering of consciousness level.  The absence of severe underlying disease, chronic or not, was uncommon in both groups, but more frequent in the Legionella group.  We observed no differences in the clinical features of the two groups.  Mean values of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and total bilirubin were higher (p less than 0.05) in the non-Legionella group.  The only x-ray data that showed significant difference were pleural effusion, more frequent in the non-Legionella group (p less than 0.02).  The mortality rate of legionellosis was 14.6 percent compared to 35.7 percent for the non-Legionella group (p less than 0.05).  We conclude that a sure differential diagnosis based on clinical, roentgenographic and analytical features of both groups is not possible.  The relatively low mortality rate of the Legionella group, when compared to other series of nosocomial legionellosis, could be due to the standard use of erythromycin in the therapeutic approach to nosocomial-acquired pneumonia in our hospital.
Gram-negative infection increases noninsulin-mediated glucose disposal.  Peripheral glucose uptake can occur by either insulin- or noninsulin-mediated mechanisms, and the two pathways appear to be regulated independently.  Using the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique, we have previously demonstrated that sepsis induces whole body insulin resistance.  The purpose of the present study was to determine whether infection also alters noninsulin-mediated glucose uptake (NIMGU) and, if so, which tissues are affected.  Studies were performed in chronically catheterized conscious rats under either basal (6 mM glucose, 30 microU/ml insulin) or insulinopenic conditions to determine NIMGU.  Hypermetabolic sepsis was induced by sc injections of live Escherichia coli, and 24 h later a tracer amount of [U-14C]deoxy-2-glucose was injected for the determination of the in vivo glucose metabolic rate (Rg) in selected tissues.  Our results indicate that NIMGU is the predominant route of glucose disposal in both septic and nonseptic rats, accounting for 79-83% of the total rate of glucose disposal.  Because the rate of whole body glucose disposal was increased by sepsis, the absolute rate of NIMGU was 46% higher in septic rats than in nonseptic animals.  This increase was the result of the elevated Rg in liver, spleen, ileum, and lung.  Sepsis also increased whole body insulin-mediated glucose uptake by 88% under basal conditions, and this was due to an enhanced glucose uptake by muscle and skin.  In insulinopenic animals in which the plasma glucose concentration was elevated to 17 mM, whole body glucose disposal increased by 107% in nonseptic animals, but by only 32% in septic rats.  The hyperglycemic-induced increment in organ Rg was smaller in all tissues examined from septic animals.  However, the absolute rate of whole body and tissue glucose utilization was not different between the two groups.  These results indicate that gram-negative infection increases whole body NIMGU, which results from an enhanced rate of glucose utilization by tissues rich in mononuclear phagocytes, including the liver, spleen, ileum, and lung, but not by muscle.
A positron emission tomographic comparison of pulmonary vascular permeability during the adult respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia.  We measured extravascular density (EVD) and the pulmonary transcapillary escape rate (PTCER) for 68Ga-transferrin using positron emission tomography in 14 normal volunteers and 29 patients with radiographic infiltrates, including six patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), eight patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and 15 patients with focal pneumonia.  Contralateral, radiographically normal regions were also evaluated in the patients with focal pneumonia.  Mean EVD was elevated in the patients with CHF, ARDS, and pneumonia in regions of radiographic infiltrate compared with values from normal subjects (p less than 0.05), but it was not significantly different among the three patient groups.  PTCER in normal subjects and in patients with CHF was not significantly different (21 +/- 11 versus 44 +/- 16 x 10(-4) min-1, respectively, p = NS).  PTCER was elevated in regions of infiltrate because of either pneumonia (173 +/- 99) or ARDS (170 +/- 79).  PTCER was also elevated in regions contralateral to those with focal infiltrate during pneumonia, even though these regions were radiographically normal and had normal EVD values.  These results suggest that PTCER is a sensitive but nonspecific index of abnormal pulmonary vascular permeability, which may be useful for classifying patients in clinical studies of pulmonary edema.
Penetrating ocular injury from contaminated eating utensils.  Although the rate of infectious endophthalmitis following penetrating ocular injury is generally less than 10%, certain settings may carry a greater risk of infection.  One such setting is penetrating injury resulting from eating utensils contaminated with oral flora.  We reviewed six of these injuries.  Culture-positive bacterial endophthalmitis developed in four of the six eyes; only one of the eyes retained reading visual acuity (greater than 20/50) and two eyes lost light perception.  The potential for infection and limited visual outcome in this series warrants aggressive prophylaxis and treatment.  The unexpected isolation of Haemophilus influenzae in two of the four infections suggests that broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment should be considered in all such injuries since less common organisms may be encountered.
Management of infants at risk for occult bacteremia: a decision analysis.  Because febrile infants with no obvious source of bacterial infection may have bacteremia, and because bacteremia is difficult to diagnose on clinical grounds, we used decision analysis to evaluate whether such infants should be treated with antibiotics, tested further, or sent home.  Using a simple decision tree, we found that the decision to give empiric antibiotic treatment is the decision of choice.  The difference in quality-adjusted life expectancy between the "best" and "worst" decisions was only 11 days.  However, this difference translated to prevention of death or permanent disability in 60 cases per 100,000 febrile children.  Further, empiric treatment remained the best management alternative unless the probability of bacteremia was less than 1.4% (less than any published prevalence), or the efficacy of treatment was less than 21%.  Our analysis demonstrated that a test with far greater sensitivity than leukocyte count or other tests currently in use is needed to justify testing rather than treating empirically.  Further, an enormous patient population would be needed to find a difference of both clinical and statistical significance between treated and untreated patients in a controlled trial.  In the absence of such trials, we recommend blood culture and empiric antibiotic treatment of all infants at risk for occult bacteremia.
Indium-111-labeled leukocyte scan in detection of synthetic vascular graft infection: the effect of antibiotic treatment.  To determine the sensitivity and specificity of the indium-111-(111In) labeled leukocyte scan for prosthetic vascular graft infection in patients treated with antibiotic therapy, a retrospective study was performed.  Of 41 consecutive 111In-labeled leukocyte scans performed to evaluate possible vascular graft infection, 23 scans were performed in patients treated with antibiotics.  The average duration of antibiotic therapy was 21 days.  Twelve positive and 11 negative scans for graft infection were found.  By surgical and autopsy correlation of all positive cases, and clinical correlation (of all negative cases), there were 10 true-positive, 11 true-negative, 2 false-positive, and no false-negative scans for graft infections, for an overall sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 85%.
Cytokines and glucocorticoids in the regulation of the "hepato-skeletal muscle axis" in sepsis.  Sepsis results in muscle catabolism and peripheral release of amino acids with a concomitant uptake of amino acids in liver and acute-phase protein synthesis.  In addition, there appears to be a cytokine-induced process that blocks muscle amino acid uptake in sepsis, further diverting amino acids from the periphery to the liver.  In this article, evidence that cytokines and glucocorticoids play an important role in the regulation of hepatic and muscle protein metabolism during sepsis is presented.
Elevated plasma endothelin-1 concentrations are associated with the severity of illness in patients with sepsis.  Plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1 concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay in 11 septic patients during the first 24 hours after the development of the sepsis syndrome in 15 nonseptic postoperative patients studied 24 hours after open heart surgery and in 14 healthy volunteers.  Mean endothelin-1 plasma concentrations were significantly (p less than 0.001) increased in septic patients (19.9 +/- 2.2 pg/mL, mean +/- standard error) compared to concentrations found in postoperative cardiac patients (11.9 +/- 0.7 pg/mL) or in healthy volunteers (6.1 +/- 0.3 pg/mL).  In septic patients elevated plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 were inversely correlated with cardiac index (r = -0.80, p less than 0.005) and positively correlated the severity of illness as documented by APACHE II score (r = 0.74, p less than 0.01) and plasma creatinine levels (r = 0.80, p less than 0.005).  No such correlations were found in postoperative cardiac patients.  These results indicate that endothelin-1 concentrations are correlated with the severity of illness and depression of cardiac output in patients with sepsis.
Helicobacter pylori in dyspeptic patients in Kuwait.  Two hundred and four patients, mainly Arabs, attending for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the gastroenterology clinic in Mubarak Al-Kabeer Hospital, Kuwait, were examined for evidence of infection with Helicobacter pylori and associated inflammation.  Biopsy specimens of antrum, body, and duodenum; gastric juice; and antral mucosal brushings were investigated by microbiological, cytological, and histopathological methods.  Clinical conditions diagnosed at endoscopy included gastritis, gastric ulcer, duodenitis and duodenal ulcer, but half the patients had endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosae.  H pylori was detected by one or more of the procedures in at least one specimen from 197 (96.6%) of the patients.  Histological and cytological analysis showed equal sensitivity, but bacteriological culture was less reliable.  The proportion of positive cases was high, compared with other reported series, which may have been accounted for by the variety of diagnostic techniques used in this study, the selected population (all with gastrointestinal symptoms) or genetic or environmental predisposing factors peculiar to the sample population.
Differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites.  The recent identification of the cystic fibrosis (CF) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in CF.  A three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product, termed the CF conductance regulator protein, accounts for 70% of cases of CF in white subjects.  However, this gene defect occurs in only 37% of affected blacks.  Analysis of CF genes from American blacks has revealed a number of mutations, most of which are unique to that population.  We therefore searched for potential differences in expression of CF between 24 black and 48 white patients with CF matched for birth date and gender.  Black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms (38% vs 10%).  Black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations (2 vs 6.9), a better mean forced vital capacity (77% vs 62% of predicted), and higher chest roentgenogram scores (18.2 vs 14.4) than white patients.  Complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration (21% vs 2%) and peptic ulcer disease (13% vs 0%) in blacks.  Survival time appeared to be longer in blacks, but the difference was not statistically significant.  We conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with CF, which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations.
Immunoreactivity of anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies to human heart valves. Evidence for multiple cross-reactive epitopes.  Association of group A streptococci with acute rheumatic fever and valvular heart disease is well established; however the basis of valve injury remains unclear.  In this study, anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) cross-reactive with myocardium were reacted with sections from 22 rheumatic valves, nine normal, five endocarditic, one 'floppy,' and one Marfan valve.  In immunohistochemical studies, MAb reactivity was observed with cardiac myocytes, smooth muscle cells, cell surface and cytoplasm of endothelial cells lining valves, and valvular interstitial cells.  Endothelial basement membrane and elastin fibrils reacted with the MAbs, whereas collagen was unreactive.  Similar reactivity was seen with sera from acute rheumatic fever patients.  The anti-streptococcal MAbs reacted with intravalvular myosin and vimentin in Western blots, and purified elastin competitively inhibited the binding of the anti-streptococcal MAbs to whole group A streptococci.  The data show that human heart valves have numerous sites of immunoreactivity with anti-streptococcal MAbs and acute rheumatic fever sera of potential importance in the pathogenesis of rheumatic valvular injury.
Humoral immunity in surgical patients with and without trauma.  We measured antitetanus toxoid antibody responses after blunt (n = 24) and penetrating (n = 7) trauma and compared them with responses in patients without trauma (n = 55).  Patients were defined as anergic or reactive on the basis of delayed type hypersensitivity response.  The response to tetanus toxoid vaccination on admission of patients surviving trauma for over 2 weeks was defined as the ratio of day 14 to day 0 serum IgG antitetanus toxoid levels.  Antitetanus toxoid responses were normal after both blunt and penetrating trauma.  When stratified according to delayed type hypersensitivity responses, patients with trauma showed better antibody responses than patients without trauma.  Major infection rates were similar between trauma groups (three of 24 with blunt trauma vs two of seven with penetrating trauma) and independent of delayed type hypersensitivity (two of 20 reactive patients vs three of 11 anergic patients), in contrast to patients without trauma (one of 19 reactive patients vs 15 of 36 anergic patients).  We conclude that decreased delayed type hypersensitivity after moderate trauma is temporary, and that this transient immunodeficiency is not as strongly associated with reduced antibody responses and increased risk of infection as anergy in surgical patients without trauma.
Platelet activating factor (PAF) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) interactions in endotoxemic shock: studies with BN 50739, a novel PAF antagonist.  BN 50739, a new PAF receptor antagonist, was tested in vitro and in vivo for its capacity to block PAF, endotoxin and recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha (rTNF)-mediated effects.  In vitro, BN 50739 blocked PAF-induced platelet aggregation by 60 to 100% at 0.2-1 x 10(-7) M (P less than .002), respectively.  In the conscious rat, pretreatment (30 min) with BN 50739 (n = 5-13) dose-dependently attenuated PAF-induced hypotension (-5 +/- 5 vs.  - 43 +/- 2 mm Hg, P less than .01) and shortened the recovery time of mean arterial pressure (22 +/- 13 vs.  325 +/- 46 sec, P less than .01).  BN 50739 (10 mg/kg i.p., n = 5-11) prevented endotoxin (14.4 mg/kg) induced-hemoconcentration (54 +/- 1 vs.  46 +/- 1%, P less than .01) and reduced 24-hr mortality (100 vs.  60%, P less than .05).  Only partial protection was conveyed by BN 50739 against the hypotensive response to endotoxin (115 +/- 3 vs.  91 +/- 4 mm Hg, P less than .03).  Also, BN 50739 attenuated the lipopolysaccharide-induced elevation of plasma thromboxane B2 (21.2 +/- 0.8 vs.  46.7 +/- 11.8 pg/100 microliters, P less than .01) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (7523 +/- 3983 vs.  26,430 +/- 3541 U/ml, P less than .05), whereas leukopenia and thrombocytopenia remained unchanged.
Stomatococcus mucilaginosus catheter-related infection in an adolescent with osteosarcoma.  Ours is apparently the first reported pediatric case of Stomatococcus mucilaginosus bacteremia.  It is the second reported case of S mucilaginosus catheter-associated infection, but the first case successfully treated without removing the central venous catheter.  This unusual organism should be added to the list of opportunistic pathogens that can be isolated from immunocompromised pediatric patients.
Pneumonia complicating abdominal sepsis. An independent risk factor for mortality.  Nosocomial pneumonia (NP) is associated with a significant mortality, 66% in a previous retrospective study of NP complicating intra-abdominal sepsis (IAS).  We prospectively compared the outcome of NP complicating IAS with that of recurrent IAS (R-IAS) in the absence of NP.  Data were collected prospectively on 300 patients with IAS; 34 patients who presented with pneumonia were excluded from the analysis (44% mortality).  One hundred seventy-one patients with no NP and no R-IAS (group 1) had a hospital mortality of 20% (34 patients); 36 without NP in whom R-IAS developed (group 2) had a 17% mortality (six patients); and 47 with NP but no R-IAS (group 3) had a 53% mortality (25 patients).  Finally, 12 patients who had both NP and R-IAS suffered a 75% mortality (nine patients).  We examined the relationships among the following putative risk factors and mortality: APACHE (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) II score (at initial presentation with IAS), the need for mechanical ventilatory assistance following initial treatment for peritonitis, steroid requirement, generalized peritonitis vs abscess, and the need for surgical as opposed to percutaneous treatment.  Using mortality as the dependent variable, group 2 vs 3 as the explanatory variable, and the risk factors as confounders, logistic regression analysis indicated that the group difference was significant after controlling for confounders.  We conclude that NP complicating IAS is an independent risk factor associated with a significant mortality compared with R-IAS.  These data challenge the notion that death in IAS is usually due to recurrent or persistent intra-abdominal infection.
Idiopathic neutropenia: antineutrophil antibodies and clinical correlations.  PURPOSE: The present study was done to evaluate the clinical characteristics of a large series of adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia, and correlate the presence of antineutrophil antibodies, their class (IgG or IgM), and their ability to fix complement with clinical parameters, including other hemocytopenias, splenomegaly, and infections.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred twenty-one adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia were studied.  Serum neutrophil-binding antibodies were measured using paraformaldehyde-fixed granulocytes (PFGs) from normal volunteers as target cells.  125I-labeled staphylococcal protein A was used to detect IgG antibodies while IgM antibodies were detected by using 125I-labeled mouse monoclonal anti-IgM antibody.  Sera containing antineutrophil antibodies were tested for their ability to fix complement on donor PFGs by using 125I-labeled monoclonal antibody to the third component of complement.  RESULTS: Of the 121 patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia, 71 patients had isolated neutropenia, while 50 had neutropenia combined with either anemia and/or thrombocytopenia.  Among the 71 patients with isolated neutropenia, there were 51 females (72%), compared with 28 females (56%) among the 50 patients with combined hemocytopenias (p = 0.083).  Patients with multiple hemocytopenias were significantly older (p less than 0.01), were more likely to demonstrate splenomegaly (p = 0.001), and may have had more infectious complications.  From all the patients, 36% of sera were shown to have antineutrophil antibodies, with a non-significant trend for these to be found more frequently in patients with multiple hemocytopenias.  Sera with mixed IgG-IgM antineutrophil antibodies were significantly more likely to fix complement than those with isolated IgG or IgM antibodies, and among the patients with antineutrophil antibodies, complement-fixing antibodies were significantly associated with multiple hemocytopenias.  Splenomegaly was significantly associated both with antineutrophil antibodies (p = 0.008) and with infections (p = 0.007).  Antineutrophil antibodies were not associated with infections.  CONCLUSIONS: Approximately one third of adult patients with idiopathic neutropenia have IgG and/or IgM antineutrophil antibodies demonstrable in their serum.  There is a subset of patients with idiopathic neutropenia with multiple hemocytopenias who tend to be older, less likely to show female predominance, more likely to have splenomegaly and infections, and more likely to have antineutrophil antibodies, especially mixed IgG-IgM and complement-fixing antibodies.
Reactional states in Hansen's disease: practical aspects of emergency management.  Hansen's disease (leprosy), though not a common condition in the United States, can be found in some localities among patients who come to the emergency room for treatment.  Hansen's disease (HD) is a chronic systemic infectious granulomatous disease involving principally the skin, mucosa, nerves, and eyes.  The causative organism, Mycobacterium leprae, is neither highly contagious nor aggressive, but rapid alterations in the immunologic response to M leprae in affected tissues can result in acute exacerbations termed "reactions." Since most of the symptoms and morbidity in HD are a consequence of these reactional states, they must be recognized and treated early to prevent permanent sequelae, especially neurologic and ophthalmologic.  Drug therapy, physical therapy, and sometimes surgery all play a role in minimizing the injury caused by reactions.
Cerebrospinal fluid immune complexes in patients exposed to Borrelia burgdorferi: detection of Borrelia-specific and -nonspecific complexes.  We analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 32 patients with neurological symptoms and evidence of Borrelia burgdorferi infection (29 were seropositive as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, 2 were cell-mediated immune positive, and 1 had been seropositive as shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 9 months previously).  CSF immune complexes were found in 22 (69%) of 32 patients; in 18, there was sufficient sample to isolate immune complexes.  By enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, isolated immune complexes from 10 of these 18 patients contained antibody specific for B.  burgdorferi antigens.  The isotypes were IgG (n = 8), IgM (n = 3), and IgA (n = 2).  By immunoblot, these antibodies were directed against B.  burgdorferi 41-kDa antigen and occasionally against the 33- and 17-kDa antigens.  Anti-B.  burgdorferi IgM was present in patients with acute neurological symptoms, was predominantly complexed rather than free, and decreased with clinical recovery in the one serial study.  Three patients were nonreactive for free CSF antibodies, but had complexed antibodies to the organism.  The preliminary finding of specific B.  burgdorferi components in immune complexes in CSF suggests an active process triggered by the organism, even in the absence of other CSF abnormalities.
The role of antibiotic therapy in the prevention of empyema in patients with an isolated chest injury (ISS 9-10): a prospective study.  The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of an antibiotic regimen on the incidence of empyema in patients admitted with isolated chest trauma (ISS 9/10) and hemopneumothorax requiring tube thoracostomy.  All patients with isolated chest trauma and hemopneumothorax (estimated ISS 9 or 10) seen in our trauma center were considered eligible for this study.  Patients were excluded for the following reasons: age less than 18 years, presence of shock at the time of initial resuscitation, ongoing antibiotic therapy for unrelated disease, documented pre-existing infection or documented abnormal immune status.  Ninety patients were randomized to two treatment limbs: antibiotics and tube thoracostomy or tube thoracostomy alone.  All patients had the procedure performed in the trauma center in a standard fashion.  Wound care and tube care were identical.  Antibiotic therapy consisted of a first-generation cephalosporin (cefazolin), one dose given just before the procedure and then q 6 h into the tube removal.  Injury Severity Scores were established as described by Schwab after the manner of Baker.  Statistical analysis was performed using Fisher's exact test of binary outcome.  In this study, antibiotics were able to reduce the incidence of empyema in patients with isolated chest trauma and for such patients antibiotic treatment appears justified.  Further work is required to determine the effect on patients with more severe injury and multisystem involvement.
Torulopsis glabrata vaginitis: clinical aspects and susceptibility to antifungal agents.  Torulopsis glabrata is second only to Candida albicans in frequency of isolation from the vagina in both asymptomatic women and patients with yeast vaginitis.  We retrospectively studied 33 patients from whom vaginal isolates of T glabrata were obtained.  Torulopsis glabrata caused symptomatic vaginitis in 42% of the patients but was unassociated with symptoms in 30%; in 27% of patients, its importance was uncertain because of concomitant pathology.  Antifungal susceptibility testing was performed on 39 T glabrata strains isolated from 39 patients.  The minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of the majority of T glabrata isolates fell within the sensitive range of the antimycotic drugs tested; however, no correlation was found between in vitro antifungal MICs and the response to azole drug therapy.  Clinical success was achieved in 67% of the patients although mycologic cure occurred in only 33%.  A small number of patients developed recurrent and often chronic Torulopsis vaginitis unresponsive to conventional therapy.  Limited experience suggests that vaginal boric acid therapy may be of value in these recalcitrant cases.
Spermatic cord for onlay coverage of urethral defect.  Segmental urethral necrosis may accompany scrotoperineal gangrene, and primary closure of the urethral defect may unacceptably reduce urethral dimensions.  This dilemma has been managed successfully in 5 patients by application of the intact spermatic cord to the urethral defect and approximation to its margins.  A representative case is described.
Poor compliance with universal precautions: a universal phenomenon?  An anonymous survey was conducted in order to examine compliance with universal precautions in the Department of Pediatrics at Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood, Illinois.  Completed questionnaires were returned by 23 faculty members, 29 residents, and 22 medical students.  Gloves were worn consistently during venipuncture or intravenous catheterization by 13, 7, and 18% of attending physicians, residents, and students, respectively.  Most physicians wear gloves only occasionally and cite presence of high-risk factors as their selection criterion.  Interference with the performance of procedures is the most common cause of noncompliance.  In view of poor compliance with universal precautions, further efforts are needed in order to decrease the incidence of preventable exposure to blood-borne infections.
Antifungal and surgical treatment of invasive aspergillosis: review of 2,121 published cases [published erratum appears in Rev Infect Dis 1991 Mar-Apr;13(2):345]  No controlled trials of therapy for invasive aspergillosis have been done.  This review appraises 2,121 cases reported in 497 articles in the literature and analyzes 440 courses of treatment of infection at various body sites in 379 patients.  The exclusion of early failures of therapy skews the results toward a favorable outcome.  The rate of response to amphotericin B is 55%.  Mortality from pulmonary aspergillosis in bone marrow transplant recipients exceeds 94% regardless of therapy, as does that from cerebral aspergillosis in all hosts.  Amphotericin B (1 mg/[kg.d]) with flucytosine lowers mortality in neutropenic patients with pulmonary aspergillosis who did not receive a bone marrow transplant; relapse is common.  Surgical debridement of aspergillus maxillary sinusitis is usually curative in nonimmunocompromised patients, whereas it increases mortality among neutropenic patients.  Valve replacement is essential for aspergillus endocarditis.  Both vitrectomy and intravitreal amphotericin B treatment are essential for aspergillus endophthalmitis.  Flucytosine is somewhat useful clinically.  Itraconazole shows efficacy in the treatment of pulmonary, skeletal, and pericardial aspergillosis.  Although liposomal amphotericin B is less toxic than standard preparations of the drug, relevant data are limited.  The proposed potentiation of amphotericin B by rifampin is unsupported by clinical data.  Despite "conventional" therapy, mortality from invasive aspergillosis remains high; new approaches must be investigated.
Managing skin infections in children.  Because neonates and very young children have little or no immunity to common streptococci and staphylococci, skin infections caused by these organisms must be regarded warily.  Prompt and proper treatment may be critical in preventing progression of the lesions and averting systemic complications.
Brucellar and tuberculous spondylitis. A comparative study of their clinical features.  The clinical data from 19 patients with brucellar spondylitis and 15 with tuberculous spondylitis were compared.  The former disease affects males whose occupations expose them to Brucella.  The lumbar spine is usually involved and there are other symptoms of brucellosis.  Tuberculous spondylitis is not usually accompanied by general symptoms.  The dorsal spine is more frequently affected and may exhibit vertebral collapse and paraspinal abscesses.  These differences permit a presumptive aetiological diagnosis, but the definitive diagnosis depends upon bacteriological tests.
Mycoplasma pulmonis infections cause long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation in the respiratory tract of the rat.  These experiments were done to learn whether Mycoplasma pulmonis infections of the respiratory tract of rats can potentiate "neurogenic inflammation" and whether this potentiation is amplified by factors that exacerbate the infections.  Pathogen-free F344 rats were inoculated intranasally with M.  pulmonis or with sterile culture medium and then lived for 4 wk in an ammonia-free atmosphere or in air containing ammonia (100 parts per million).  Neurogenic inflammation was evoked by an intravenous injection of capsaicin, and 5 min later the magnitude of the response was quantified by measuring the amount of extravasation of two tracers, Monastral blue pigment and Evans blue dye.  We found that vascular permeability in the tracheas of all rats was normal in the absence of capsaicin.  However, a 75-micrograms/kg dose of capsaicin, which caused almost no extravasation of Evans blue in the tracheas of pathogen-free controls (17 +/- 3 ng/mg; mean +/- SE), produced extensive extravasation in the infected rats (135 +/- 18 ng/mg; P less than 0.001).  Similarly, this dose of capsaicin produced 30 times as much Monastral blue extravasation in the infected rats (area density = 47 +/- 8% of surface area) as it did in the pathogen-free rats (1.6 +/- 0.5%; P less than 0.001), a difference that resulted from increases in the number of Monastral blue-labeled postcapillary venules and in the amount of labeling per venule.  Exposure of the infected rats to ammonia exacerbated the infections, further increased the number of Monastral blue-labeled vessels and the amount of labeling per vessel, and made the rats so sensitive to capsaicin that a normally tolerable dose of 150 micrograms/kg i.v.  caused fatal apnea.  Ammonia did not have these effects in pathogen-free rats.  We conclude that M.  pulmonis infections of the airway mucosa cause a potent, long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation, which results in part from an increase in the number and responsiveness of mediator-sensitive postcapillary venules.  These changes can be amplified by environmental factors such as ammonia which exacerbate the infections.
The challenge of prophylaxis in cesarean section in the 1990s.  Physicians have evaluated the role of antibiotics in the prevention of perioperative infections since these drugs were discovered, but not until it was determined that antibiotics prevented staphylococcal wound infections in the animal model did surgeons consider their use for prophylaxis.  In the 1970s, improved techniques in isolating and identifying anaerobic microorganisms and the unacceptably high incidence of infection-related complications convinced obstetricians to study, and ultimately accept, the use of perioperative antibiotic administration to prevent these infections.  Recent progress has included refinement of the guidelines for patient selection and drug regimens.  Although a single dose of an antibiotic given to the patient undergoing primary cesarean section has been demonstrated to be effective prophylaxis when administered after clamping the umbilical cord, this practice has not been widely accepted.  With the discovery of cephamycins the role of these broad-spectrum antibiotics in obstetric and gynecologic surgery was investigated.  One of the studies compared the efficacy of cefmetazole with that of cefotetan in preventing post-cesarean section infection.  Eighteen patients in each group received a 2-g dose of one of the two drugs when the umbilical cord was clamped.  Predetermined elevations in temperature were used to evaluate the presence of ensuing infections.  Four subjects in each group developed some type of morbidity.  Postoperative complications included wound infection, endometritis, bladder infection and cellulitis.  Cefmetazole and cefotetan seemed equally effective in preventing post-cesarean section infections.
The prevalence and incidence of clinical and asymptomatic Lyme borreliosis in a population at risk.  A past history of clinical Lyme borreliosis and the 6-month incidence of clinical and asymptomatic Lyme borreliosis was studied prospectively in a high-risk population.  In the spring, blood samples were drawn from 950 Swiss orienteers, who also answered a questionnaire.  IgG anti-Borrelia burgdorferi antibodies were detected by ELISA.  Positive IgG antibodies were seen in 248 (26.1%), in contrast to 3.9%-6.0% in two groups of controls (n = 101).  Of the orienteers, 1.9%-3.1% had a past history of definite or probable clinical Lyme borreliosis.  Six months later a second blood sample was obtained from 755 participants, 558 (73.9%) of whom were seronegative initially; 45 (8.1%) had seroconverted from negative to positive.  Only 1 (2.2%) developed clinical Lyme borreliosis.  Among all participants, the 6-month incidence of clinical Lyme borreliosis was 0.8% (6/755) but was much higher (8.1%) for asymptomatic seroconversion (45/558).  In conclusion, positive Lyme serology was common in Swiss orienteers, but clinical disease occurred infrequently.
Premature rupture of the membranes and sepsis in preterm neonates.  This investigation was designed as a historical cohort study using data abstracted from medical records.  Five hundred seven preterm neonates (26-35 weeks gestation) born alive from singleton pregnancies complicated by premature rupture of the membranes (PROM) were selected.  Each neonate was matched on gestational age, gender, ethnicity, and date of delivery to a neonate without PROM.  A matched pairs analysis was done using risk ratios (RR) to measure strength of the association and risk differences (RD) to measure absolute effect.  Analysis revealed that preterm births complicated by PROM were at significantly higher risk of neonatal sepsis (RR = 3.5) and infection (RR = 2.4).  The RDs indicated that PROM exposure contributed an excess of 5 cases of sepsis per 100 infants (RD = 0.05).  PROM was not significantly associated with neonatal mortality, but when PROM had existed over 48 hours there was a higher risk of sepsis and infection.  Birth of a neonate over 1500 grams or 33 weeks gestation was the most important factor in reducing risk of infection in PROM deliveries.
Parapoxvirus infections acquired after exposure to wildlife.  The histopathologic and electron microscopic findings in two patients with skin lesions that developed after exposure to deer and other wildlife were consistent with a parapoxviral infection.  Human infections that were morphologically similar to Parapoxvirus infection have been previously described concerning exposure to cervids (deer and related animals).  Ours are the first reported cases in which viral particles were demonstrated by electron microscopy.
Griseofulvin: a new look at an old drug.  Griseofulvin is the oral antifungal agent of choice for the treatment of dermatophytoses.  This article reviews the history, pharmacokinetics, adverse reactions, and traditional therapeutic applications of griseofulvin.  In addition, reports since 1960 of the use of the drug in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon, progressive systemic sclerosis, lichen planus, mycosis fungoides, herpes zoster, eosinophilic fasciitis, and molluscum contagiosum are discussed, noting the varying degree of therapeutic success.
Hosts on which nymphal Ixodes ricinus most abundantly feed.  To identify hosts that may serve as European reservoirs for the agent of Lyme disease, Borrelia burgdorferi, we determined whether nymphal Ixodes ricinus feed mainly on particular mice (Apodemus flavicollis or A.  agrarius), voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) or on sand lizards (Lacerta agilis) and whether the abundance of these hosts corresponds to the seasonal activity of the subadult stages of the vector tick.  In all sites, the mice appeared most heavily infested by larvae; at least seven parasitized each mouse, about three per vole and four per lizard.  Many fewer nymphal I.  ricinus parasitized A.  flavicollis and C.  glareolus than did larvae.  Although more than 30 times as many larval than nymphal ticks parasitized the two most abundant hosts (C.  glareolus and A.  flavicollis), about 15 times as many fed on A.  agrarius and twice as many on lizards.  Nymphal and larval ticks fed on rodents at about the same time.  Lizards were most abundantly parasitized by nymphs somewhat earlier than by larvae.  Early in the season of transmission of Lyme disease, virtually all A.  agrarius as well as lizards were potentially exposed to spirochetes borne by nymphal I.  ricinus.  We concluded that larval and nymphal I.  ricinus differentially parasitize different hosts.  Because so many of these nymphs feed on them, A.  agrarius may more effectively serve as reservoirs for the agent of Lyme disease than do other putative reservoir hosts.  The presence of lizards may inhibit transmission.
Macrophage- and oxidant-mediated inhibition of the ability of live Blastomyces dermatitidis conidia to transform to the pathogenic yeast phase: implications for the pathogenesis of dimorphic fungal infections.  Conidia, produced by the mycelial phase of dimorphic fungi, are thought to represent the infectious form of the organism but must complete a transition to the tissue-invasive, yeast-like phase for infection to ensue.  Preventing such transition should effectively eliminate pathogenicity.  Using Blastomyces dermatitidis as a target, murine bronchoalveolar macrophages preferentially blocked phase transition after 4 h of incubation with conidia, relatively sparing the ability of conidia to produce hyphae.  H2O2, in relatively high concentrations, demonstrated the same activity.  The effects of H2O2 seem irreversible, since H2O2-treated conidia that germinated at 48 h at 25 degrees C were still unable to produce yeasts over the next 5 days when incubated at 37 degrees C.  Catalase could not reverse the macrophage-induced inhibition of phase transition, suggesting that nonoxidative defense mechanisms may be operative in vivo.  Since conidia do not form mycelia at temperatures found in mammalian hosts, these effects may represent a novel host defense mechanism against dimorphic fungal pathogens.
The peritoneal environment during infection. The effect of monomicrobial and polymicrobial bacteria on pO2 and pH.  Intraperitoneal (IP) abscesses frequently are composed of aerobes and anaerobes, and, in experimental models, a particulate adjuvant.  The environmental changes effected by these components, either singularly or in combination, have not been well defined.  The IP pO2, pH, and recoverable bacteria from the peritoneum of rats were quantified over 6 hours during simple aerobic and anaerobic infections and during mixed peritonitis with and without a sterile feces-barium sulfate adjuvant (SFA).  Fourteen groups were studied, receiving intraperitoneally, at time of oxygen probe placement, 1 mL normal saline (control), Escherichia coli (EC), Bacteroides fragilis (BF), SFA alone, or a mixture of EC and BF, EC and SFA, BF and SFA, or EC, BF, and SFA.  Control animals exhibited a stable IP pO2 and pH during 6 hours.  In monomicrobial EC peritonitis, inocula well below the LD50 produced an increased IP pO2 and reduced arterial-peritoneal gradient (APG), with a stable IP pH.  By 6 hours lethal doses of EC produced a dramatic decline in IP pO2, with no change in arterial pO2 as well as acidic IP and arterial pHs.  Simple BF peritonitis caused no or minor elevations in IP and arterial pO2 with no change in pH.  During mixed infections a significant decline in the IP pO2 and pH at 6 hours in those groups infected with both SFA and EC of a moderate, normally sublethal inoculation was observed, while arterial pO2 was unchanged and arterial pH was decreased only slightly.  Concomitantly there was a significant increased number of aerobic bacteria in those groups with SFA as adjuvant compared to similar inocula without SFA.  This study demonstrates the complex interactions of bacteria, sterile particulate adjuvant (SFA), and the host peritoneum.  It suggests that the combination of SFA and aerobic bacteria alter the peritoneal environment to one permitting anaerobic growth and promoting abscess formation.
Absent or minimal cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities in Haemophilus influenzae meningitis.  A case of Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) meningitis in which the diagnosis and treatment were delayed because of normal cerebrospinal fluid analysis is presented.  A retrospective review was conducted at two children's hospitals to determine the frequency and clinical characteristics of patients with Hib meningitis whose spinal fluid had a normal total white blood cell count, normal chemistries, and negative Gram stain, but subsequent growth of Hib in culture.  Of 379 cases of Hib meningitis, two had completely normal CSF, and two had CSF containing small numbers of polymorphonuclear cells as the sole abnormality.  In three of the four cases, the duration of symptoms was less than 24 hours, and appropriate therapy was significantly delayed because of benign-appearing CSF.  Normal CSF cell counts, chemistries, and Gram stain do not exclude the possibility of bacterial meningitis, and one should remain suspicious when a child has clinical findings suggesting meningitis.
Management of urinary tract infections in children.  Urinary tract infection is common in children.  The presentation varies with age.  Younger children exhibit protean signs.  Diagnosis is dependent on the demonstration of significant bacteriuria in a properly collected and handled urine sample.  The approach to treatment depends on the degree of illness at presentation, the presence of structural urinary tract abnormalities, and the age of the patient.  Pathophysiology of urinary tract infection is dependent on interactive factors of the host and of the invading microorganism.  Urinary tract abnormalities have significant impact on the management of children with urinary tract infections, both medically and surgically.  Of particular importance is the observation that renal damage usually occurs within the first 5 years of life, and treatment delay in some young patients may have significant consequences.  The overall prognosis in children with urinary tract infection is favorable.
Improvement of septic syndrome after administration of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH)?  Twenty patients with generalized sepsis were studied prospectively to evaluate the effects of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) administration.  Five patients had developed sepsis after major abdominal surgery, 15 patients after multiple trauma with head injury (HTI-ISS 38 +/- 2 and Glasgow Coma Scale 4 +/- 1).  The urea production rate (UPR) could be significantly reduced by the intramuscular administration of 1.5 IU of rhGH/kg bodyweight (BW) per day (UPR day: 5, 62 +/- 6.7 gm/d vs.  UPR day: 10, 42.6 +/- 5.9 gm/d).  The catabolic index of Bistrian (BI) was significantly lower after rhGH therapy on day 10 compared to day 5.  IGF-1 increased significantly after the administration of rhGH.  The nitrogen balance, however, did not become positive, despite the administration of rhGH.  The changes in sepsis were estimated by the scoring system according to Elebute and Stoner on days 3, 5, 7, 10, and 13.  In those patients who were available for post-treatment evaluation the parameters had returned to baseline values after the withdrawal of rhGH.  Results indicate that this therapy might ameliorate the nitrogen intake, but has no influence on the course of sepsis.  Compared to previously published results in nonseptic patients, the somatomedin inhibitors as well as the split-products of the complement system and the metabolites of arachidonic acid may have been responsible for this weak effect of rhGH and IGF-1 in septicemia.
General principles of therapy of pyogenic meningitis.  In bacterial meningitis, several pharmacodynamic factors determine therapeutic success-when defined as sterilization of the CSF: (1) Local host defense deficits in the CNS require the use of bactericidal antibiotics to sterilize the CSF.  (2) CSF antibiotic concentrations that are at least 10-fold above the MBC are necessary for maximal bactericidal activity.  Protein binding, low pH, and slow bacterial growth rates are among the factors that may explain the high antibiotic concentrations necessary in vivo.  (3) High CSF peak concentrations that lead to rapid bacterial killing appear more important than prolonged suprainhibitory concentrations, probably because very low residual levels in the CSF prevent bacterial regrowth, even during relatively long dosing intervals.  (4) Penetration of antibiotics into the CSF is significantly impaired by the blood-brain barrier and thus, very high serum levels are necessary to achieve the CSF concentrations required for optimal bactericidal activity.  Beyond these principles, recent data suggests that rapid lytic killing of bacteria in the CSF may have harmful effects on the brain because of the release of biologically active products from the lysed bacteria.  Since rapid CSF sterilization remains a key therapeutic goal, the harmful consequences of bacterial lysis present a major challenge in the therapy of bacterial meningitis.  Currently, dexamethasone represents that only clinically beneficial approach to reduce the harmful effects of bacterial lysis, and novel approaches are required to improve the outcome of this serious infection.
Laboratory in the diagnosis and management of urinary tract infections.  The laboratory is essential in the diagnosis and management of UTIs.  The presence of pyuria and bacteriuria, the two most important indicators of UTIs, are most accurately determined by standard techniques.  In quantitating pyuria, the finding of greater than or equal to 10 leukocytes/mm3 of urine by either hemocytometry or direct microscopy correlates highly with symptomatic, culture-proven UTIs.  The determination of bacteriuria by direct microscopy is inaccurate, particularly at lower levels of bacteriuria; thus, quantitative urine cultures remain the most accurate measure of bacteriuria.  Significant bacteriuria, previously defined as greater than or equal to 10(5) CFU/ml of urine, has been redefined with the observation that as few as 10(2) CFU/ml can be associated with significant pyuria and symptoms suggestive of cystitis.  The need for routine and posttreatment urine cultures in nonpregnant women with acute dysuria remains controversial, but current data suggest that they are usually unnecessary.  Rapid diagnostic tests for detection of pyuria and bacteriuria are designed to increase efficiency and decrease cost in the diagnosis of UTI.  Unfortunately, none of these techniques can quantitate pyuria or bacteriuria as accurately as the standard methods, but the level of accuracy offered by the standard methods is not always necessary in the care of patients with uncomplicated UTIs.  These tests are particularly well suited for screening asymptomatic high-risk populations.  Noninvasive localization techniques continue to be explored as possible alternatives to invasive localization procedures, but they remain largely research tools that are not readily available to the practicing clinician.  Understanding the applicability and appropriate use of newer technologies in the evaluation of patients with UTIs and how these technologies complement the standard diagnostic techniques will lead to better, more efficient, and less costly patient care.
Group A streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  A rapidly enlarging left inguinal adenitis, with positive groove sign, and fever, chills, malaise, hypotension, headache, scarlatiniform rash, choleroid diarrhea, and proteinuria developed in an homosexual man who was positive for human immunodeficiency virus.  The needle aspiration of the inguinal mass showed group A beta-hemolytic streptococci and the blood cultures were negative, suggesting group A streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis with toxic strep syndrome.  Treatment with penicillin and surgical drainage was successful.  Bacterial infections associated with defective humoral immunity appear to be common in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and some of these infections have a remarkable extensive and lethal evolution.  Therefore streptococcal adenitis should be considered in any patient with AIDS or AIDS-related syndrome in whom rapidly enlarging inguinal nodes develop.
Mycobacteremia in acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Rapid diagnosis based on inclusions in the peripheral blood smear.  In 16 cases of human immunodeficiency virus-associated Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex (MAC) infection, 7 were diagnosed after finding intracytoplasmic negatively staining linear inclusions within histiocytes using Romanowsky-stained bone marrow aspirate smears.  Four patients had inclusions within monocytes and neutrophils in the peripheral blood smear.  The authors believe these cases represent the first reported examples of MAC inclusions observed within leukocytes in Wright's-stained peripheral blood smears.  Inclusions usually were found in the setting of prominent toxic changes in leukocytes such as large Dohle bodies, marked granulation, and vacuolation.  These inclusions are characteristic of mycobacteria and can be confirmed by acid fast stains and mycobacteriologic culture.  The authors present the clinical and laboratory setting in which identification of inclusions in peripheral blood smears may be a rapid, minimally invasive, and cost-effective method of diagnosing mycobacterial infection.
Early post-treatment with pentoxifylline or dibutyryl cAMP attenuates Escherichia coli-induced acute lung injury in guinea pigs.  We examined effects of early post-treatment with the methylxanthine pentoxifylline (PTXF), or the cell-permeable adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) analog dibutyryl cAMP (db-cAMP) on Escherichia-coli-induced acute lung injury in guinea pigs.  Acute lung injury was assessed by measurements of lung water (lung wet/dry weight ratio; W/D ratio), the concentration ratio of 125I-albumin in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and lung tissue compared with plasma (albumin index; BAL-AI or tissue-AI), and total differential leukocyte count in BAL fluid.  Mean arterial pressure (Pa) and peripheral WBC counts were monitored continuously over the 8-h experiment.  Septicemia was induced by a bolus injection of 2 x 10(9)/kg live E.  coli.  Thirty minutes later the animals received a bolus injection followed by continuous infusion of PTXF (20 mg/kg + 20 mg/kg/h; n = 8) or db-cAMP (2 mg/kg + 2 mg/kg/h; n = 8) or saline (septic control; n = 8).  Nonseptic control groups were also studied.  The lung W/D ratio, BAL-AI, lung tissue-AI, and BAL leukocyte count increased significantly in the septic control group.  The PTXF-septic and db-cAMP-septic groups showed no significant increase in lung W/D ratio, BAL-AI, and lung tissue-AI.  However, there was no difference in BAL total and differential leukocyte count as compared with the septic control group.  PTXF and db-cAMP had no effect on E.  coli-induced changes in peripheral WBC count and Pa.  Comparison in vitro experiments demonstrated that PTXF and db-cAMP inhibited the endotoxin-induced (E.  coli) chemiluminescent response of isolated guinea-pig polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN).
Closed suction drainage following knee arthroplasty. Effectiveness and risks.  A prospective investigation was performed to determine when to remove a suction drain following total knee arthroplasty (TKA).  Forty-one TKAs were randomly allocated to closed suction drainage for either 24 or 48 hours.  The drain was removed and the tip was cut off and processed by a method giving quantitative cultures.  In the 48-hour group, 85% of the total volume was drained during the first 24 hours.  During the following 24-hour period, a mean volume of only 50 ml was drained.  No organism was isolated from cultures of drain tips sampled at 24 hours.  However, at 48 hours, 25% of the drain tips yielded light growths of coagulase-negative staphylococci (four drain tips) and Staphylococcus aureus (one drain tip).  Clinical evaluations of wound healing were comparable in the two groups.  Clearly, nothing is to be gained by continuing drainage beyond 24 hours.  If drainage is maintained for longer periods, there is an increased risk of contamination by bacteria.
Ampicillin-resistant enterococcal species in an acute-care hospital.  A prospective review of all enterococcal isolates for 13 months showed that 9.0% were resistant to ampicillin (MIC, greater than or equal to 16 micrograms/ml; zone diameter, less than 15 mm), as determined by the Vitek system, disk diffusion, microdilution MIC testing, and macrodilution MIC testing.  All were beta-lactamase negative.  A total of 19 and 3 resistant isolates were from urine and intravascular sites, respectively.  Ampicillin-resistant enterococci appear to be a growing clinical problem.
Evaluation of three techniques for documenting Staphylococcus epidermidis vascular prosthetic graft infections.  Staphylococcus epidermidis (S.  epidermidis) vascular prosthetic graft infections are notoriously hard to detect.  Three different techniques of determining whether vascular prosthetic grafts were infected using a dog model were evaluated.  Aortic angiograms were compared with nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging and systemic norepinephrine (NE) kinetics to determine if either newer technique would be more reliable than standard angiograms.  Twelve dogs were randomized to control (n = 6) or infected groups (n = 6).  All dogs had a 5 cm section of their infrarenal aorta replaced with knitted Dacron vascular prosthetic graft.  The grafts in the infected group were contaminated by soaking them in a broth containing S.  epidermidis.  NE production and clearance rates were calculated for all animals after an infusion of 3H-NE using the steady-state radionuclide tracer methodology.  One week following graft insertion, dogs were reanesthetized, and the 3H-NE infusion and measurements were repeated.  Standard angiograms and NMR imaging were also performed.  Once all tests were performed, the prosthetic grafts were removed for cultures.  Comparisons between the initial and final norepinephrine measurements for each group were made using the nonparametric Wilcoxon two-sample test, while comparisons between the groups were made by chi square or the Student's t test.  Angiogram results were similar for control and infected animals.  Angiograms missed disruption of the proximal anastomosis found in three of the six infected dogs at graft removal.  None of the six control animals, while five of the six infected animals, had localized areas of high signal intensity on NMR imaging (P less than 0.01) suggesting abscess formation.
Hepatomuscular failure in septic catabolism: altered muscular response to plasma proteolytic factor in decreased hepatic mitochondrial redox potential.  To estimate the contribution of muscle protein in whole-body protein catabolism, the muscular contribution index (MCI; urine 3-methylhistidine/urine total nitrogen) was determined in 49 cases of elective laparotomy, together with the arterial blood ketone body ratio (KBR; acetoacetate/beta-hydroxybutyrate), which reflects hepatic mitochondrial redox potential.  MCI increased after operation and the occurrence of severe infection, provided KBR was maintained above 0.7.  In patients with sepsis, however, MCI decreased dependently with KBR (n = 33; p less than 0.01).  In these patients, plasma proteolysis-inducing activity determined by in vitro bioassay increased in inverse proportion to KBR (n = 20, p less than 0.01).  Moreover, plasma concentrations of not only aromatic but also branched-chain amino acids markedly increased when KBR decreased to below 0.4 (n = 23; p less than 0.05).  Thus the role of muscle protein in septic catabolism is diminished under reduced hepatic mitochondrial redox potential, despite the rapid increase of proteolysis-inducing activity.  This finally leads to the failure of amino acid uptake by muscles, as well as liver.  These results suggest that the deteriorated substrate exchange may form the metabolic background for multiple systems organ failure, which is often preceded by reduced KBR.
Epidural tuberculoma of the spine: case report   Epidural tuberculomas of the spine have been reported only rarely during the past few decades.  A case of a surgically treated epidural tuberculoma of the thoracic spine in a 76-year-old women is presented.
Short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis   A prospective study, with an attempted 24-month-post-treatment follow-up, of children with tuberculosis (TB) treated with short course chemotherapy (SCC) for 6 months was carried out because published experience of SCC in childhood TB was limited.  All children in Port Moresby diagnosed as having TB between November, 1984, and November, 1986, entered the trial.  Of the 639 children 165 (26%) were younger than 2 years old.  Of these, 227 (35%) had extrapulmonary TB (peripheral lymph node, 110; central nervous system, 43; abdominal, 27; miliary, 16; bone and joint, 11; pleural, 11; polyserositis, 9).  Clinical response to SCC was rapid.  Adverse drug reactions occurred in 15 (2%), mainly to streptomycin.  Twelve (2%) died, 38 (6%) transferred out and 145 (28% of the 518 who did not die, transfer or live too far from a treatment centre) defaulted.  Three hundred seventy-three (58%) completed a 2-month course of daily rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and streptomycin followed by a 4-month course of twice weekly rifampin and isoniazid.  A further 71 (11%) had their treatment modified because of their distance from a treatment center.  Only 70 (19%) of the 373 children available for post-treatment follow-up attended the every-3-month follow-up visits for 24 months, although 223 (60%) attended one or more of the follow-up visits.  Seven of the 373 children relapsed, mostly within 3 months.  Five of these children had been irregular with their treatment.  SCC for childhood TB is safe and effective for pulmonary and extrapulmonary disease.
Molecular epidemiologic techniques in analysis of epidemic and endemic Shigella dysenteriae type 1 strains.  During 1988 the number of Shigella dysenteriae type 1 infections reported in the United States increased fivefold.  To determine if recent isolates from Mexico were related to those that caused epidemics of dysentery worldwide, Southern hybridization analysis was done with Shiga toxin and ribosomal RNA gene probes.  Western hemisphere and Eastern Hemisphere strains differed by the size of a single EcoRI fragment carrying the Shiga toxin genes.  Three ribosomal DNA (rDNA) patterns were observed, which correlated with the strain's continental origin for 81 of 83 isolates tested.  Together the Shiga toxin and rDNA probe results indicated that recent Mexican isolates were chromosomally similar to earlier Central American isolates and distinct from Asian and African strains.  This suggests there has been no significant exchange of organisms between continents in recent decades and that the 1988 outbreak in Mexico was caused by strains present in Central America since at least 1962.
Contaminant blood cultures and resource utilization. The true consequences of false-positive results.  To determine whether contaminant blood cultures increase resource utilization, we studied charge and length of stay data for episodes in which blood cultures were obtained from hospitalized adults.  Compared with 1097 negative episodes, 94 false-positive episodes were associated with increased subsequent length of stay (median, 12.5 vs 8 days) and subsequent total charges (median, $13,116 vs $8731), pharmacy charges (median, $1456 vs $798), and laboratory charges (median, $2057 vs $1426).  In multivariate analyses, contaminants were independently correlated with 20% and 39% increases in total subsequent laboratory charges and intravenous antibiotic charges, respectively.  Thus, the true costs of contaminants may greatly exceed those of the test itself.  Identifying patients at very low risk of bacteremia and attention to sterile technique may reduce costs by decreasing the frequency of contaminants.
Immunogenicity and protective effect against oral colonization by Streptococcus mutans of synthetic peptides of a streptococcal surface protein antigen.  Streptococcus mutans is known to be a major causative organism of human dental caries.  A surface protein Ag with a molecular mass of 190 kDa of S.  mutans (PAc) is receiving attention as an anticaries vaccine.  We have recently determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the gene for PAc.  In this study, four peptides were synthesized on the basis of amino acid sequence of PAc.  Among these peptides, PAc(301-319) corresponding to the alanine-rich repeating amino acid region was the most strongly bound by polyclonal murine anti-rPAc antibodies.  The peptide partially inhibited the binding of polyclonal anti-rPAc antibodies to rPAc.  The peptide induced the proliferation of T cells from BALB/c mice immunized with rPAc.  Subcutaneous immunization with PAc(301-319) or rPAc emulsified in CFA/IFA induced high serum IgG responses to rPAc and PAc(301-319).  In addition, serum IgG responses to a surface protein Ag with a molecular mass of 210 kDa of Streptococcus sobrinus were elicited in mice immunized by s.c.  injection with PAc(301-319) or rPAc.  Intranasal immunization with PAc(301-319) coupled to cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) or with rPAc and free CTB induced high serum IgG responses to rPAc.  The immunization with PAc(301-319) coupled to CTB or rPAc and free CTB suppressed the colonization of murine teeth by S.  mutans.  These results suggest that intranasal immunization with the peptide or rPAc may be effective for the prevention of dental caries.
False-positive results in serologic tests for Rocky Mountain spotted fever during pregnancy.  The data from this study demonstrate that false-positive results from tests for Rocky Mountain spotted fever increase with the duration of pregnancy.  The sera of 4.0% (2/50) of women in their first trimester of pregnancy, 10.9% (5/46) in their second trimester, and 12.1% (12/99) in their third trimester yielded false-positive results from latex agglutination assays for Rickettsia rickettsii infections.  The cause of these false-positive results was not determined by this study.  These false-positive titers were not associated with clinical findings or other laboratory abnormalities.  Even though these sera did not contain antibodies to R rickettsii detectable by indirect fluorescent antibody testing, such false-positive results from serologic tests for Rocky Mountain spotted fever can obscure the patient's correct diagnosis.  This may lead to the unnecessary use of potentially toxic antibodies and prevent initiation of appropriate therapy.
Chronic postoperative endophthalmitis associated with Actinomyces species.  Actinomyces species, gram-positive, non-spore-forming anaerobic bacilli were isolated from intraocular fluid obtained from four otherwise healthy patients with a delayed onset of postoperative endophthalmitis.  One patient had a mixed anaerobic infection with recovery of both Actinomyces israelii and Propionibacterium acnes.  In all four patients, early postoperative visual acuity was good but was eventually markedly reduced by intraocular inflammation that was first observed between 21 days and 4 months following uneventful extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation.  Inflammation was characterized by anterior segment and vitreous cellular debris in all cases.  All eyes responded to therapy that included intraocular, topical, and systemic antibiotics as well as pars plana vitrectomy and partial iridectomy.  These cases further illustrate the need for microbiologic investigation, including anaerobic cultures, in all cases of chronic postoperative inflammation following extracapsular cataract extraction, regardless of the time of onset.
Diversity of outer membrane protein profiles of nontypable Haemophilus influenzae from children from Papua New Guinea and the Philippines.  We determined capsular serotypes and, with use of SDS-PAGE, patterns of outer membrane proteins (OMP) of Haemophilus influenzae isolates from specimens of blood, lung, or CSF from children with acute respiratory tract infections or meningitis who were hospitalized in Papua New Guinea or the Philippines.  Among 72 isolates from Papua New Guinea, 72% were type b, 14% were other encapsulated serotypes, and 14% were nontypable.  The respective frequencies among 43 isolates from the Philippines were 56%, 7%, and 37%.  The type b isolates could be subdivided into at least eight outer membrane subtypes, most of which have been described previously.  In contrast, OMP profiles of the nontypable H.  influenzae isolates from children in both countries were highly heterogeneous.  These results differ markedly from those previously found for isolates from children with acute respiratory tract infections in Pakistan, for which encapsulated H.  influenzae strains other than serotype b were not observed; 95% of type b isolates were of a single OMP subtype; and nontypable isolates showed evidence of clonal restriction.  Candidate vaccines for use in developing countries as protection against disease caused by H.  influenzae will need to include both capsular and noncapsular antigens and investigators must take into consideration regional differences among strains.
Non-invasive assessment of the cardiovascular eicosanoids, thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin, in randomly sampled males, with special reference to the influence of inheritance and environmental factors.  1.  We studied, in a random sample of 385 nonsmoking men born in 1968-1969 and 31 men born in 1913 or 1923, whether inheritance and environmental factors influenced platelet activity and vessel wall prostacyclin formation, as reflected non-invasively by the urinary excretion of the 2,3-dinor-metabolites of thromboxane A2 (2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2, Tx-M) and prostacyclin (2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha, PGI-M), respectively.  2.  Fathers of young men with high platelet activity did not excrete more Tx-M than fathers of young men with low platelet activity.  Men born in 1913 or 1923 displayed higher Tx-M (563 versus 128 pg/mg of creatinine, P less than 0.001) and PGI-M (163 versus 130 pg/mg of creatinine, P less than 0.01) excretion than those born in 1968-1969.  Excretion of both Tx-M and PGI-M was correlated to the urinary output of noradrenaline and adrenaline.  3.  Well-trained subjects did not differ in their excretion of Tx-M or PGI-M from those who did not exercise regularly.  A recent acute infection was also unrelated to the excretion of Tx-M or PGI-M.  PGI-M excretion was, however, significantly correlated to Tx-M excretion (r = 0.51, P less than 0.001).  4.  This study provides the first non-invasive evidence that advancing age and sympathoadrenal tone are positively correlated to platelet activity in randomly sampled men, and that paternal inheritance, physical fitness and recent infection lack correlation to platelet activity.
Doppler systolic-diastolic ratios in pregnancies complicated by syphilis.  Maternal infection with syphilis can result in focal areas of vasculitis and, similarly, placental villitis and obliterative arteritis.  We hypothesized that Doppler systolic-diastolic ratios (S/Ds) in pregnancies complicated by maternal syphilis infection might reflect an increased resistance to placental perfusion.  Doppler velocity waveform analysis was used to study the uterine and umbilical arteries in third-trimester pregnancies complicated by maternal syphilis infection.  A control group of similarly studied normal pregnancies was used for comparison.  Statistically significant increases were found in the mean S/Ds of both the uterine and umbilical arteries in the syphilis group compared with the normal group, indicating an increased resistance to perfusion of the placenta in pregnancies complicated by syphilis.  This difference was even greater in association with the identification of spirochetes in the amniotic fluid by dark-field microscopy, indicating that the S/D results are related to the presence of intrauterine infection.  Serial S/Ds in a small subgroup of patients correlated with the clinical courses, including an apparent acute vascular-resistance change associated with treatment, probably due to the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction.  Because of these post-treatment vascular events, the pre-treatment S/D alone may have a limited clinical predictive value for treatment efficacy in congenital syphilis.
Gastric epithelium in the duodenum: its association with Helicobacter pylori and inflammation.  Duodenal biopsy specimens from 471 adults and 47 children were examined to determine the prevalence and distribution of gastric epithelium in the duodenal bulb in relation to age, gender, gastroduodenal inflammation, smoking, alcohol and consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID).  Gastric metaplasia was present in the anterior wall duodenal biopsy specimen in 31%, was significantly less common in patients under 17 than in adults, and was more common in males than females.  In sixty two adults who underwent multiple radial duodenal biopsy gastric metaplasia was randomly distributed around the duodenal circumference; sixty three per cent of the patients with gastric metaplasia found on multiple biopsy were detected by just the anterior biopsy.  Gastric metaplasia was not obviously associated with alcohol, cigarette, or NSAID consumption.  While the presence of gastric metaplasia was associated with adulthood, male sex, and low fasting gastric juice pH, its extent was associated with active duodenitis and Helicobacter-associated gastritis.  On logistic regression, gastric metaplasia in the duodenum and gastric Helicobacter pylori were independent predictors of active duodenitis, but were not significantly associated with inactive duodenal inflammation.  H pylori was observed in duodenal biopsy specimens from 32 patients, all with active duodenitis; bacteria were present only on foci of gastric metaplasia, and were more likely to be seen when the metaplasia was extensive.  It is proposed that inflammatory injury to the duodenal mucosa by H pylori may stimulate the development of further gastric metaplasia, and that the area of duodenum susceptible to colonisation with H pylori may therefore increase progressively until mucosal integrity is compromised and ulceration supervenes.
Indigenous cases of Lyme disease diagnosed in North Carolina.  Between January 1984 and December 1989, 102 indigenous cases of Lyme disease were reported in North Carolina.  Lyme disease was reported in each of the three major geographic regions of the state: mountain, piedmont, and coastal plain.  One or more diagnoses were made in 42 of 100 counties.  Patients ranged in age from 5 months to 78 years (median, 27 years); 58 patients (57%) reported a history of tick exposure within 1 month of the onset of symptoms.  Erythema migrans was reported by 93 patients (91%).  Arthritis (30%), neurologic symptoms (10%), and cardiac abnormalities (7%) were observed.  Thirty of the 102 cases were confirmed serologically by indirect fluorescence microscopy or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Hepatic extraction of indocyanine green is depressed early in sepsis despite increased hepatic blood flow and cardiac output.  Although active hepatocellular function is depressed during sepsis, it is not known whether this occurs in the very early stages of sepsis and whether it is due to depressed cardiac output or hepatic blood flow.  To study this, rats were subjected to sepsis by cecal ligation and puncture and hepatocellular function was determined at various intervals thereafter by assessing the ability of the liver to clear different doses of indocyanine green.  The indocyanine green concentration was continuously measured in vivo with a fiberoptic catheter and an in vivo hemoreflectometer.  Maximal velocity and kinetic constant of the clearance of indocyanine green, hepatic blood flow, and cardiac output were determined in experimental and sham-operated rats.  The results demonstrate that hepatic blood flow and cardiac output increased 2 to 10 hours after cecal ligation and puncture, while hepatocellular function (maximum velocity and kinetic constant) was decreased even 2 hours following cecal ligation and puncture.  No linear correlation between hepatocellular function and hepatic blood flow or cardiac output was found under such conditions.  The extremely early depression in active hepatocellular function, despite the increased hepatic blood flow and cardiac output, may form the basis for cellular dysfunctions leading to multiple organ failure during sepsis.
Treatment of beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis with cefaclor or penicillin. Efficacy and interaction with beta-lactamase-producing organisms in the pharynx.  The recommended treatment for group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis has continued to be penicillin given in parenteral or oral form.  Treatment failures, as determined by the continued presence of the streptococcal organism in the pharynx, however, do occur in 6% to 25% of patients treated with penicillin.  Furthermore, beta-lactamase produced by other bacteria in the pharynx could potentially inactivate the penicillin, resulting in increased treatment failures or infection relapses.  A study was undertaken to compare the efficacy of cefaclor, which is relatively resistant to inactivation by beta-lactamase, with penicillin for eradicating the group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal organism from the throats of 93 patients with pharyngitis.  Additionally, extensive cultures for potential beta-lactamase-producing organisms were conducted on 37 patients; 27% of these had one or more pharyngeal organisms that were producing beta-lactamase.  No statistically significant difference was found between the clinical responses or the bacteriological cure rates of those treated with cefaclor and those treated with penicillin when stratified by the presence or absence of beta-lactamase-producing organisms.  The prevalence of beta-lactamase-producing organisms in the pharynx, however, was increased after treatment with penicillin, whereas no change was noted following treatment with cefaclor.
Normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy   We hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children's degree of hypovolemia, even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality.  A randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma AVP concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours.  Plasma AVP concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours.  Nineteen children, 2 months to 17 years of age, were studied; 13 had bacterial meningitis (12 with Haemophilus influenzae type b).  Ten children (seven with bacterial meningitis) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements, and nine (six with bacterial meningitis) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance.  Children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium (mean = 6.3 mEq/kg/24 hr) than children in the fluid-restricted group (mean = 2.0 mEq/kg/24 hr).  The two groups were comparable for plasma AVP concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun.  The plasma AVP concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction (p = 0.005), and the change in AVP concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given (p less than 0.02).  This study supports the hypothesis that serum AVP concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney.  Patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone.
Computer-generated physician and patient reminders. Tools to improve population adherence to selected preventive services.  Despite an emerging consensus on appropriate preventive services, a minority of patients receive them.  A study was undertaken to assess the impact of computer-generated reminders to adult patients, their physicians, or both patients and physicians on adherence to five recommended preventive services: cholesterol measurements, fecal occult blood testing, mammography, Papanicolaou smears, and tetanus immunization.  During the academic year 1988-1989, all 7397 adult patients and their 49 physicians in a university family medicine clinical practice were randomized by practice group into one of four study groups: control, physician reminders, patient reminders, and both physician and patient reminders.  Adherence was defined in community-oriented terms: the percentage of patients within each group who had received the preventive service in the recommended interval.  During the study period, adherence to four of the five preventive services increased significantly, with the largest increases in the physician and patient reminder group: cholesterol measurements increased from 19.5% to 38.1%, fecal occult blood testing 9.3% to 27.0%, mammography 11.4% to 27.1%, and tetanus immunization 23.4% to 35.4% (for each increase, P less than .0001, McNemar's chi-square test).  In general, increases were greater in blacks and in patients with any form of insurance coverage.  Computer-based physician and patient reminder systems have great promise of improving adherence to preventive services in primary care settings.
A clarification on endodontic flare-ups [comment]  In an article on endodontic flare-ups by Robert J.  Matusow, our research and publications are discussed.  Since we found what we consider to be distortions and misinterpretations of our work, it was decided to clarify the apparent discrepancies found in Matusow's article.
Pneumococcal osteomyelitis and arthritis in children. A hospital series and literature review.  Twenty-nine children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis, 11 of whom had osteomyelitis, were treated at Cook County Hospital, Chicago, Ill, in the past 20 years.  They were mostly normal children with a single focus of infection.  They represented more than 5% of the hospitalized children with a systemic pneumococcal infection.  Most of the pneumococcal isolates were serotyped; serotype 19, in particular, seemed to be unusually common in these children.  Twenty-three of the 29 children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis had been hospitalized in the past 15 years.  These 23 children were compared with 161 hospitalized children who had bone and joint infections with other isolated bacteria.  The children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were indistinguishable from most of the other children, except by age.  All but three of the children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were between the ages of 3 and 24 months.  In this age group, Pneumococcus was the common isolate from children with osteomyelitis, and second only to Haemophilus influenzae from children with bacterial arthritis.  Pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis has never been rare; the medical literature describes at least 245 other children, most of whom were younger than 2 years.
Endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension.  To assess reliability of the endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa for diagnosing portal hypertension, 50 patients with portal hypertension and 1323 controls were studied.  Endoscopic evidence of mild gastritis was seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension than in the control group (42% vs.  13.1%, p less than 0.001).  The mosaic sign was also seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension compared with controls (14% vs.  0.9%, p less than 0.001).  However, the mosaic sign was found to be nonspecific, and the sensitivity for diagnosis of portal hypertension was only 14%.  Biopsy specimens from the stomach of all patients with portal hypertension and 100 controls with a normal endoscopic appearance revealed mucosal vascular congestion in 72% of patients with portal hypertension compared with 59% of controls (NS).  There was no correlation between endoscopic and histologic evidence of congestive gastropathy.  Similarly, there was no correlation between the severity of mucosal vascular congestion and the degree of inflammatory changes observed in the biopsy specimens; both in the control (r = 0.1) and in patients with portal hypertension (r = 0.14).  It is concluded that endoscopic and histologic features of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension are of low sensitivity and nonspecific and cannot be used to diagnose portal hypertension.
Diagnosis of Campylobacter pylori gastritis.  Campylobacter pylori is a bacterium that inhabits gastric mucosa.  It causes chronic active gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal ulcer.  Campylobacter pylori has a urease enzyme (not present in man), which allows diagnosis by a [14C]urea breath test.  We compared two noninvasive tests, the breath test and serum ELISA, to biopsy and histologic diagnosis.  Twenty-two patients who underwent gastroduodenoscopy for evaluation of possible peptic ulcer disease entered the study.  The breath test detected the organism in eight of eight patients biopsy-positive for the organism (sensitivity 100%).  The breath test was negative in 12 of the 14 patients who were biopsy-negative (specificity 86%).  The ELISA was performed in 14 patients.  It was positive in 5 of 5 patients biopsy-positive for the organism (sensitivity 100%) and negative in 7 of 9 patients who were biopsy-negative (specificity 78%).  We conclude that both the ELISA and the [14C]urea breath test are excellent noninvasive methods to detect Campylobacter pylori.  However, only the breath test is suitable for following the response to treatment, as it detects the presence of the organism rather than an immune response to it.
Treatment of candidosis in severely injured adults with short-course, low-dose amphotericin B.  Thirty-three (0.7%) of 4,818 trauma patients admitted between January 1, 1987, and July 1, 1989, developed invasive candidosis requiring IV antifungal therapy.  All patients were seriously traumatized.  Before developing candidosis, all patients had documented bacterial infections.  These infections were generally polymicrobial and were treated with multiple broad-spectrum antibiotics (an average of 5.4 antibiotics for 17.2 days).  Twenty-eight (85%) of 33 patients received enteral feedings for an average of 11 days +/- 1.5 (SEM) before developing candidosis and 24 (73%) received NG/oral nystatin for an average of 7.6 days +/- 0.9 before developing candidosis.  All patients with candidosis were treated with intravenous amphotericin B: cumulative dose of 157.3 mg +/- 31.3 mg given over 10 days +/- 1.1.  One patient developed recurrent candidosis despite NG/oral prophylaxis and enteral feedings.  Six patients (18%) died due to sepsis and multiple organ failure.  The patients who died did not objectively differ from the survivors.  Candidosis is an infrequent infection in severely injured patients.  Candidosis was invariably preceded by treatment with multiple broad-spectrum antibiotics for a variety of polymicrobial bacterial infections.  NG/oral nystatin and enteral feedings did not prevent candidosis, in contrast to widely accepted beliefs.  Amphotericin B therapy was safe.  Recurrent candidosis was unusual.  Candida infections had a high mortality rate associated with multiple blood transfusions and prolonged hospitalization.  Candidosis represents a sign of severe injury and illness but can be amenable to prompt, aggressive treatment.
Pulmonary aspergillosis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome   BACKGROUND AND METHODS.  Symptomatic pulmonary aspergillosis has rarely been reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).  We describe the predisposing factors, the clinical and radiologic features, and the therapeutic outcomes in 13 patients with pulmonary aspergillosis, all of whom had human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and 12 of whom had AIDS.  RESULTS.  Pulmonary aspergillosis was detected a median of 25 months after the diagnosis of AIDS, usually following corticosteroid use, neutropenia, pneumonia due to other pathogens, marijuana smoking, or the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics.  Two major patterns of disease were observed: invasive aspergillosis (in 10 patients) and obstructing bronchial aspergillosis (in 3).  Cough and fever, the most common symptoms, tended to be insidious in onset in patients with invasive disease (median duration, 1.3 months before diagnosis).  Breathlessness, cough, and chest pain predominated in the three patients with obstructing bronchial aspergillosis, who coughed up fungal casts.  Radiologic patterns included upper-lobe cavitary disease (sometimes mistaken for tuberculosis), nodules, pleural-based lesions, and diffuse infiltrates, usually of the lower lobe.  Transbronchial biopsies were usually negative, but positive cultures were obtained from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid or percutaneous aspirates.  Dissemination to other organs occurred in at least two patients, and direct invasion of extrapulmonary sites was seen in two others.  The results of treatment with amphotericin B, itraconazole, or both were variable.  Ten of the patients died a median of 3 months after the diagnosis (range, 0 to 12 months).  CONCLUSIONS.  Pulmonary aspergillosis is a possible late complication of AIDS; if diagnosed early, it may be treated successfully.
A study to assess the efficacy of chemoprophylaxis in the prevention of endoscopy-related bacteraemia in patients aged 60 and over.  Five hundred and fifteen patients aged 60 and over (mean age 74.7; 278 men and 237 women) underwent routine endoscopic procedures (gastroscopy, bronchoscopy and cystoscopy).  Alternate patients were given antibiotics before the procedure, as currently recommended, and blood was taken for culture from all patients within five minutes of completion of the procedure.  Of 74 patients who underwent bronchoscopy, only one culture, from one of 37 controls was positive.  Of 262 who underwent gastroscopy, cultures were negative in the 130 who received antibiotics but positive in 13 of the 132 controls (9.8 per cent p less than 0.001).  Cystoscopy was performed in 179; one culture was positive in the 88 given antibiotics (1.1 per cent) compared to 25 in the 91 controls (27.5 per cent; p less than 0.001).  Bacteraemia rates appear to be low following bronchoscopy (less than 5 per cent) but higher with gastroscopy (10 per cent) and cystoscopy (28 per cent).  Chemoprophylaxis was effective in reducing these rates in this patient group.
Audit of major colorectal and biliary surgery to reduce rates of wound infection.  OBJECTIVE--To reduce the rates of wound infection for major colorectal and biliary surgery.  DESIGN--Prospective audit of antibiotic prophylaxis by keeping copies of typed notes of operations and annotating them at discharge and at first follow up visit and annual review of prophylactic regimen according to yearly rate of wound infection and modification if necessary.  SETTING--The work of one consultant surgeon working in a district general hospital.  PATIENTS--All patients having major colorectal resection during 1976-89 (400) and cholecystectomy during 1981-9 (500).  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Wound infection, defined as any discharge from the wound as detected by observation during inpatient stay and by specific questioning at the first follow up visit six weeks later.  RESULTS--Serial changes in prophylaxis for colorectal surgery resulted in a progressive reduction in the rate of wound infection from 43% in 1976, with no prophylaxis, to 1% during 1986-9 with single intravenous doses of metronidazole and cefuroxime intraoperatively and with lavage of the peritoneal cavity and wound with 0.1% tetracycline.  During 1981-7, with no prophylaxis, the rate of infection in biliary surgery was 12% whereas in 1988-9, after the introduction of lavage with tetracycline alone, the rate was reduced to 2%.  IMPLICATIONS AND ACTION--Simple prospective audit identified the need for changes in antibiotic prophylaxis; successive rounds of audit resulted in improved rates of wound infection, and lavage with 0.1% tetracycline seemed to be a major factor in achieving this.
Mycobacterium chelonei keratopathy with visual rehabilitation by a triple procedure.  We report a chronic keratouveitis following an eye injury, the etiology of which remained obscure despite repeated corneal scrapings and cultures.  Eventually, the diagnosis was established by culturing Mycobacterium chelonei from a corneal biopsy specimen.  Topical amikacin resolved active inflammation, but dense corneal scarring and a cataract remained.  Visual rehabilitation was achieved through a combined penetrating keratoplasty, extracapsular cataract extraction, and intraocular lens implantation.  This case illustrates that there should be a high index of suspicion of atypical mycobacteria when faced with any unusual keratitis, particularly following penetrating injuries and corneal grafts.
Six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening.  OBJECTIVE--To determine the value of screening for bacteriuria in infants with special emphasis on the natural course of untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria, renal growth, and renal damage.  DESIGN--Prospective six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening in an unselected infant population.  SETTING--Paediatric outpatient clinic.  PATIENTS--50 Infants (14 girls, 36 boys) with bacteriuria on screening verified by suprapubic aspiration from an unselected population of 3581 infants in a defined area of Gothenburg.  INTERVENTIONS--Children with asymptomatic bacteriuria and normal findings on initial urography were untreated, although other infections were treated.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Culture of urine and determination of C reactive protein concentration every six weeks for the first six months after diagnosis, every three months from six months to two years, and every six months between two and three years; thereafter yearly urine culture.  Evaluation of renal concentrating capacity with a desmopressin test; radiological examination, including first and follow up urography and micturition cystourethrography without antibiotic cover; and measurement of renal parenchymal thickness and renal surface area.  RESULTS--Of the original 50 infants, 37 (12 girls, 25 boys) were followed up for at least six years.  Two infants developed pyelonephritis within two weeks after bacteriuria was diagnosed; the others remained free of symptoms.  45 Infants were untreated; the bacteriuria cleared spontaneously in 36 and in response to antibiotics given for infections in the respiratory tract in eight.  Recurrences of bacteriuria were observed in 10 of the 50 children, of whom one had pyelonephritis.  No child had more than one recurrence.  At follow up urography in 36 of the 50 children (9 girls, 27 boys) after a median of 32 months no child had developed renal damage.  First samples tested for renal concentrating capacity showed significantly higher values than those from a reference population (mean SD score 0.50, 95% confidence interval 0.21 to 0.79; p less than 0.001), but the last samples showed no significant difference (mean SD score 0.08, -0.24 to 0.40; p greater than 0.05).  CONCLUSIONS--Mass screening for bacteriuria in infancy results primarily in detection of innocent bacteriuric episodes and is not recommended.
Predictive index for optimizing empiric treatment of gram-negative bacteremia.  In a survey of 296 episodes of gram-negative bacteremia in 286 patients (aged 13-99 years), four clinical variables were found to predict both significantly and independently the subsequent isolation of a multiresistant strain; hospital acquisition of the infection, antibiotic treatment before the bacteremic episode, endotracheal intubation, and thermal trauma as the cause of hospitalization.  These variables were combined in an index that served to classify the patients into four groups with an increasing prevalence of multiresistant strains, Pseudomonas isolates, and isolates resistant to each of the antibiotic drugs in common use.  For example, the percentage of isolates susceptible to cefuroxime in the four groups were 79%, 56%, 34% and 25%, and to gentamicin, 89%, 79%, 46%, and 33% (P less than .001 for both comparisons).  The performance of the index was validated in a second group of 144 episodes of gram-negative bacteremia.  The index kept its discriminative power.  Compared with the prescriptions of the attending physicians, the index could probably have improved empiric antibiotic treatment in 24% of patients.
Serological identification of Escherichia coli O157:H7 infection in haemolytic uraemic syndrome.  To test the value of serological tests as an adjunct to bacteriological methods and toxin testing in haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS), 60 patients with the disorder were examined for evidence of faecal Escherichia coli producing verocytotoxin (VTEC), particularly of serogroup O157.  They were also tested for serum antibodies reacting with the lipopolysaccharide of E coli O157 by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunoblotting; for faecal VTEC by means of DNA probes hybridising with the genes encoding verocytotoxins VT1 and VT2; and for "free" faecal VT.  Strains of E coli serotype O157:H7 were isolated from 9 patients, and faecal VT2 was detected in 3 of them.  Strains of E coli of serotypes 05:H-, O55:H10, O105ac:H18, and O163:H19 were isolated from 4 patients, but faecal VT was not detected.  Faecal VT2 was present in 1 patient from whom VTEC were not isolated.  Antibodies to the lipopolysaccharide of E coli O157 were detected in serum samples from 44 patients.  The 9 patients with faecal O157:H7 all had high titres of these antibodies, but serum samples from 16 healthy control children were negative.  Serological testing of patients with HUS for antibodies to the lipopolysaccharide of E coli O157 provides evidence of infection with E coli O157 when faecal bacteria or VT cannot be detected.
Total-hip arthroplasty: periprosthetic indium-111-labeled leukocyte activity and complementary technetium-99m-sulfur colloid imaging in suspected infection   Indium-111-labeled leukocyte images of 92 cemented total-hip arthroplasties were correlated with final diagnoses.  Prostheses were divided into four zones: head (including acetabulum), trochanter, shaft, and tip.  The presence (or absence) and intensity of activity in each zone was noted, and compared to the corresponding contralateral zone.  Though present in all 23 infected arthroplasties, periprosthetic activity was also present in 77% of uninfected arthroplasties, and was greater than the contralateral zone 51% of the time.  When analyzed by zone, head zone activity was the best criterion for infection (87% sensitivity, 94% specificity, 92% accuracy).  Fifty of the arthroplasties were studied with combined labeled leukocyte/sulfur colloid imaging.  Using incongruence of images as the criterion for infection, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of the study were 100%, 97%, and 98%, respectively.  While variable periprosthetic activity makes labeled leukocyte imaging alone unreliable for diagnosing hip arthroplasty infection, the addition of sulfur colloid imaging results in a highly accurate diagnostic procedure.
Sexually transmitted diseases.  Over the past two decades the incidence of STDs has dramatically increased in the United States.  Most patients with these infections present first to primary care physicians.  All physicians must be familiar with the common STD syndromes and the indications for specific diagnostic tests in order to provide a comprehensive treatment plan.  Primary prevention strategies based on patient education and secondary prevention through judicious use of screening tests in appropriate settings can also limit the morbidity associated with STDs.
Clinical disease, drug susceptibility, and biochemical patterns of the unnamed third biovariant complex of Mycobacterium fortuitum.  Previous studies of Mycobacterium fortuitum identified isolates that did not fit its two recognized biovariants.  Eighty-five clinical isolates of this group, the "third biovariant complex", were evaluated.  They represented 16% of 410 isolates of M.  fortuitum submitted to a Texas laboratory and 22% of 45 isolates in Queensland, Australia.  Most infections (76%) involved skin, soft tissue, or bone and occurred after metal puncture wounds or open fractures.  Isolates differed from biovar fortuitum in resistance to pipemidic acid and use of mannitol and inositol as carbon sources.  Two subgroups were present, and examples were deposited in the American Type Culture Collection.  Isolates were resistant to doxycycline and one-third were resistant to cefoxitin.  All were susceptible to amikacin, ciprofloxacin, sulfamethoxazole, and imipenem.  Surgical debridement combined with drug therapy based on in vitro susceptibilities resulted in cures of cutaneous disease or osteomyelitis.  DNA homology studies are needed to determine the taxonomic status of these organisms.
'Cystic papilloma' in humans? Demonstration of human papillomavirus in plantar epidermoid cysts.  Fourteen cases of plantar epidermoid cyst were studied immunohistochemically and five of them were also studied electron microscopically for the presence of human papillomavirus.  In eleven cases, the test results were positive for papillomavirus antigens, and in five of them, papillomaviruslike particles were observed by electron microscopy.  Histological examination showed most of the cysts to contain intracytoplasmic eosinophilic bodies in cells of the cyst wall as well as the vacuolar structures in the keratinous mass within the cavity.  These findings suggest an etiologic association between the papillomavirus and plantar epidermoid cysts.  The "cystic papilloma" produced in rabbits by the Shope papillomavirus has been clearly demonstrated.  We propose that human papillomaviruses play an important role in the genesis of plantar epidermoid cysts.  This is the first report on the possible existence of a cystic papilloma in humans.
Ibuprofen prevents deterioration in static transpulmonary compliance and transalveolar protein flux in septic porcine acute lung injury.  The effects of intravenous ibuprofen on measurements of pulmonary function and alveolar capillary membrane permeability to protein in sepsis-induced porcine acute lung injury (ALI) were studied.  Young swine (15-25 kg) were anesthetized, cannulated, and ventilated (5 cm H2O PEEP, 0.5 FIO2, and 15 cc/kg tidal volume).  Three groups were studied: septic animals (Ps, n = 10) received Pseudomonas aeruginosa for 1 hr IV, controls (C, n = 9) received 0.9% NaCl, and ibuprofen-treated septic animals (Ps + Ibu, n = 7) received ibuprofen 12.5 mg/kg at 0 and 120 min post Ps.  Systemic (SAP) and pulmonary (PAP) arterial pressures, PaO2, cardiac index (CI), static lung compliance (CL), EVLW (thermal cardiogreen), and peripheral white blood cell counts (WBC) were measured.  Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed for protein and % neutrophil (%PMN) content.  Results: Ps produced significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in CL, PaO2, SAP, CI, and peripheral WBC and increases in PAP, EVLW, BAL protein, and %PMN's vs.  controls.  Ibu prevented the early increase in PAP and attenuated the late increase in PAP and EVLW.  Ibu also maintained PaO2, CL, BAL protein, and %PMN's in BAL at control levels, but exhibited no significant effect on peripheral leukopenia.  These data strongly suggest that ibuprofen administered before and at 120 min after onset of Pseudomonas infusion improves lung compliance and affects neutrophil function sufficiently to significantly ameliorate many of the physiologic derangements in acute sepsis.
Abscess of the sphenoid sinus after transsphenoidal surgery.  A case of a bacterial abscess developing in the sphenoid sinus 2 weeks after transsphenoidal surgery is presented.  Although abscesses within the sella turcica have been reported as rare complications of transsphenoidal surgery, this is the first reported case of the postoperative formation of an abscess of the sphenoid sinus.  The patient sought treatment for severe headaches, nausea and vomiting, and marked temperature elevation.  A computed tomographic scan demonstrated soft tissue and air within the sphenoid sinus.  A regimen of stress doses of hydrocortisone and antibiotics was prescribed, and the patient underwent transsphenoidal drainage of the sphenoid sinus.  The sella turcica was not involved.  Anaerobic cultures were positive for Fusobacterium necrophorum.
Prevalence of antibody to Borrelia burgdorferi in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.  Lyme arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) share a number of clinical features.  Our study was performed in order to determine the prevalence of antibody to Borrelia burgdorferi in 50 children with JRA who reside in a nonendemic area.  Three patients were weakly reactive and one patient was reactive when tested using an enzyme immunoassay to detect serum antibody to B.  burgdorferi.  No patient, however, had definitive serologic evidence of B.  burgdorferi infection by Western blot analysis.  We conclude that the prevalence of antibody to B.  burgdorferi is very low in children with JRA who reside in a nonendemic area.
Microbial agents associated with pneumonia in children from Uruguay.  The etiology of severe pneumonia, not frequently encountered in a community-based study, was determined in 204 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age.  Potential pathogens were identified in 41% of episodes.  Viruses were isolated or antigen was detected in 36.3% of cases; 82.4% of these cases were due to respiratory syncytial virus.  Bacteria or bacterial antigens were identified in 13.2% of cases; Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae were the most frequently identified bacterial pathogens isolated from blood and/or pleural effusions.  Mixed infections were identified in 4.9% of the episodes.  Among the 17 patients with pleural effusion whose pleural space was drained, the etiology was suggested for 10 (58.8%).  A clear-cut seasonal variation was seen, with the highest prevalence between May and October.  Viral infections were more common in the first 6 months of life, although viral and bacterial infections were distributed throughout the first 5 years of life.
Helicobacter pylori and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.  Helicobacter pylori (previously Campylobacter pylori) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease.  The relationship between H.  pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is unknown.  We investigated the frequency of H.  pylori infection in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and also what effect H.  pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.  H.  pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic (ELISA) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of H.  pylori.  We studied 20 patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years, median age 51.  Six Zollinger-Ellison syndrome patients had H.  pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease (P less than 0.05).  Pretreatment basal acid output in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr, median 35.2.  Pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr; median 52.7.  Acid secretion was lower in the H.  pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients (BAO 24.5 +/- 6.5 vs 45.4 +/- 6.6, and MAO 44.3 +/- 11.8 vs 67.9 +/- 10.7, for H.  pylori infected vs uninfected patients, respectively).  The difference in BAO was statistically significant (P less than 0.05).  The present results indicate that H.  pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.  The association of a reduced BAO with H.  pylori suggests that these findings may be related.
Bacterial meningitis in adults.  Bacterial meningitis continues to be an important cause of morbidity and mortality despite the availability of effective bactericidal antibiotics.  Penicillin or ampicillin remains the drug of choice for meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis.  The third generation cephalosporins have revolutionized the treatment of gram-negative meningitis.  Future therapy for bacterial meningitis will use recent developments in the understanding of pathogenic and pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying this disease.
Reversible decrease of oxygen consumption by hyperoxia.  The hemodynamic and metabolic effects of 90 minutes normobaric hyperoxia were studied in 20 critically ill patients (11 septic, 9 nonseptic) requiring mechanical ventilation with inspired O2 fraction (FIO2) less than 0.40.  Thirty minutes after increasing the FIO2 to 1.0, arterial PO2 had increased from about 100 to about 400 mm Hg, and whole body oxygen uptake (VO2) was decreased 10 percent (p less than 0.05) due to an 18 percent decrease in O2 extraction ratio.  During the subsequent 60 minutes of hyperoxia, there was no further significant change in VO2.  Cardiac index did not change in hyperoxia, but it increased 10 percent (p less than 0.05) in recovery as systemic vascular resistance decreased.  VO2 returned to baseline after 30 minutes recovery at original FIO2 due to increased O2 extraction as well as the increased cardiac output.  The decrease in VO2 without a decrease in O2 delivery may reflect maldistribution of blood flow and functional O2 shunting to protect tissue from unphysiologically high PO2.  While brief oxygenation is advisable before periods of hypoventilation, the present data suggest that hyperoxic ventilation in these patients with already adequate O2 delivery was counterproductive.
Macrophage antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production after cecal ligation and puncture in C3H/HeN and C3H/HeJ mice.  Following cecal ligation and puncture with a 25-gauge needle, endotoxin-sensitive C3H/HeN mice have a 45% mortality compared with no mortality in endotoxin-resistant C2H/HeJ mice.  Macrophage production of interleukin 1 and antigen presentation were studied in these two strains of mice following cecal ligation and puncture at 2, 4, 8, 16, and 24 hours and at 2, 4, 6, and 8 days.  Splenic macrophages were cultured with a T-helper cell clone (D10.G4.1), and antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production were measured by D10.G4.1 proliferation.  Macrophage antigen presentation by C2H/HeJ mice was markedly increased compared with that in C3H/HeN mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture, most strikingly at 2 days (185m740 cpm for C3H/HeJ mice vs 30,300 for C2H/HeN mice).  Macrophage interleukin 1 production was significantly increased in C3H/HeJ mice vs C3H/HeN mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture (except at 2 days) and was maximal at 8 days (25,000 cpm for C3H/HeJ mice vs 5190 for C3H/HeN mice).  These data suggest that the differences in mortality after cecal ligation and puncture between these two strains of mice may relate to a supranormal response of macrophages of C3H/HeJ mice or to an inadequate response of macrophages of C3H/HeN mice.
Effect of dietary fish oil on plasma thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha levels in septic rats.  Increased mortality from sepsis is associated with high levels of thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (PGF1 alpha).  Linoleic acid, an n-6 essential fatty acid, is the usual precursor of TXB2 and PGF1 alpha, while fish oil is rich in n-3 essential fatty acid, the precursor of less active moieties.  Rats were fed chow, an essential fatty acid-deficient diet, or an essential fatty acid-deficient diet supplemented with linoleic acid or fish oil for 2 weeks.  The animals then underwent a sham operation or cecal ligation and puncture to induce sepsis.  Six hours later, blood was obtained for analysis.  The chow and linoleic acid diets produced significant (twofold to fivefold) increases in levels of both TXB2 and PGF1 alpha after sepsis.  The essential fatty acid-deficient diet and fish oil diet protected against increases in levels of TXB2 or PGF1 alpha during sepsis.  Dietary restriction of linoleic acid or fish oil supplementation may play an important role in altering the inflammatory mediator response to sepsis.
Etiology and pathophysiology of pyelonephritis.  Escherichia coli is the most frequent cause of pyelonephritis.  Its possible virulence factors include the ability to adhere and colonize the urinary tract, an important initiating factor in all urinary tract infections (UTIs).  The importance of P fimbriae in this adhesion is stressed and the evidence for its importance in pyelonephritis is presented in epidemiologic studies of patients, as well as in animal studies.  It appears that both host receptor density and the nonsecretor state is responsible for susceptibility to urinary tract infection.  Vesicoureteral reflux can be responsible for ascending upper tract infection, but infection with P-fimbriated E coli may lead to ascending pyelonephritis without reflux because of the paralytic effect of lipid A on ureteral peristaltic activity.  Renal ischemia leads to renal damage following infection by reperfusion damage due to the release of superoxide.  Experimentally, this ischemic damage can be prevented by allopurinol, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor.  The acute inflammatory response can produce renal damage because of the respiratory burst of phagocytosis, which while killing phagocytosed bacteria also damages renal tubules.  An amelioration of the inflammatory response by treatment with superoxide dismutase or corticosteroids has been shown to modulate renal damage.  Vaccination with P fimbriae has been shown experimentally to prevent the initiation of the disease.  However, since vaccines are not clinically available, the clinical and animal studies on therapy of acute disease are stressed.  Acute pyelonephritis during the first 3 years of life more often produced the renal damage that could lead to end-stage renal disease.
An unusual complication of cardiac transplantation--infected aortic pseudoaneurysm.  Infections after cardiac transplantation are a frequent cause of early morbidity and mortality.  An unusual site for such a complication is at the aortic anastomotic suture line.  We report a case of an infected aortic pseudoaneurysm, seen as recurrent septicemia, during the first 6 months after cardiac transplantation.
Changes in the differential white blood cell count in screening for group B streptococcal sepsis.  We compared several previously defined scoring systems using white blood cell indices as part of a retrospective evaluation of infants with early onset Group B streptococcal (GBS) sepsis.  Nineteen newborns were diagnosed with GBS sepsis between January, 1988, and April, 1990.  Case controls (n = 33) were selected from patients admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit for suspected sepsis.  Complete blood counts obtained at admission and between 12 and 24 hours of age were reviewed.  There was a significant change in the ratio of immature to total neutrophils in the GBS group over time.  Scoring systems for neonatal sepsis by Manroe et al., Rodwell et al.  and Spector et al.  had poor sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value when initial white blood cell count criteria were used, but scoring systems by Manroe and Rodwell were 100% sensitive and had 100% negative predictive value when applied to the repeat white blood cell count.  We conclude that a single early complete blood count may not be an adequate screening tool for early onset GBS sepsis and should not be used to rule out infection.  Optimal screening for GBS sepsis requires a repeat complete blood count within the first 24 hours of age.
Assessment of middle-ear status during experimental otitis media using magnetic resonance imaging.  Magnetic resonance imaging has proved to be a useful tool for in vivo imaging of a variety of tissues.  In this study, magnetic resonance imaging was applied to the middle ear of experimental animals with otitis media.  Results showed that the presence and distribution of effusion within the middle-ear space could be readily determined.  Moreover, following injection of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid, a contrast agent, the inflamed middle-ear mucosa could be resolved.  A comparison between magnetic resonance imaging and tympanometry with respect to the diagnosis of effusion showed that negative pressure tympanograms were equivocal (50% effusion) and that flat or normal tympanograms were in error in approximately 20% of the observations.  These data document a role for magnetic resonance imaging in in vivo studies of the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion.
Primary dapsone-resistant Hansen's disease in California. Experience with over 100 Mycobacterium leprae isolates   We found that in the years 1978 through 1981 only one of 54 previously untreated patients with Hansen's disease was found to harbor dapsone-resistant Mycobacterium leprae.  That single strain was only partially resistant, ie, it was resistant to 0.0001% dapsone in a mouse diet but not to higher concentrations.  During the years 1983 through 1988, M leprae from 47 previously untreated patients presenting to clinics in San Francisco, Calif, and Los Angeles, Calif, grew in mice.  None of these strains was found to be dapsone resistant.  Thus, from 1978 through 1988 only one of 101 M leprae isolates obtained from skin biopsy specimens from patients with leprosy was found to be resistant to dapsone.  We have concluded that primary dapsone resistance still does not appear to be a significant problem in California.  Owing to the fact that our single resistant case and those reported from international sources are, in general, partially resistant, the potential importance of partial dapsone resistance is discussed.
Immunization of mice with antibiotic-treated Escherichia coli results in enhanced protection against challenge with homologous and heterologous bacteria.  The murine immune response to Escherichia coli exposed to subminimal inhibitory concentrations of four antibiotics was investigated.  Groups of mice were injected for 8 weeks with formalin-killed bacteria and subsequently challenged with 10 x LD50 of viable E.  coli.  Mice receiving saline only (controls) died within 24 h.  The mortality of mice immunized with ciprofloxacin-treated E.  coli was significantly lower than that of mice immunized with E.  coli untreated or treated with other antibiotics.  Sera from mice immunized with ciprofloxacin-treated bacteria showed better bacteriostatic capacity and enhanced production of antibodies that bound to homologous and heterologous lipopolysaccharide isolated from several smooth and rough gram-negative strains.  The better protection observed in mice immunized with ciprofloxacin-treated E.  coli was probably due to an enhanced production of antibodies to epitopes on lipopolysaccharide that became better exposed and so more accessible after treatment with ciprofloxacin.
Apparent increase in the incidence of invasive group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal disease in children.  Recently, among adults, an increase in the incidence of invasive disease caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (GABS) has been noted, as has the appearance of a severe illness called "toxic shock-like syndrome," also caused by GABS.  We now report an apparent increase beginning in 1987 in the incidence of invasive disease caused by GABS in children.  Among these patients the manifestations were varied.  One child had signs and symptoms compatible with the streptococcal toxic shock-like syndrome.  Among the GABS isolates from our patients, 8 (80%) of 10 evaluated for M-protein antigens were nontypeable.  Further studies will be necessary to determine the relationship between serotypes and virulence of GABS.  Physicians should be aware of the possibility of an increasing incidence of invasive GABS disease in children, as well as its manifestations, which may include toxic shock-like syndrome.
Candidal infection in oral lichen planus.  The prevalence of candidal infection in lichen planus (LP) and its possible association with ulceration were independently examined in two archived series of 108 and 77 cases derived from two separate populations.  To ensure that similar material was being compared, each case was histopathologically reassessed and confirmed as LP or reclassified as nonspecific lichenoid stomatitis (NSLS), lichenoid dysplasia (LD), or other (O).  Three further sections, cut at 25 microns intervals, were stained with periodic acid-Schiff reagent for the identification of intraepithelial candidal pseudohyphae.  As control specimens, 61 normal and 59 hyperkeratotic mucosal samples were similarly processed and examined.  Candidal infection was found in 17.4% and 16.4% of ulcerated and nonulcerated LP cases, respectively, and in 40.0% and 16.7% of ulcerated and nonulcerated NSLS cases, respectively.  One case of LD was infected.  Each control series contained one infected case.  The results indicate that candidal infection occurs more readily in LP and NSLS, with no apparent association with ulceration in LP.  The comparatively marked increase in the infection prevalence of ulcerated NSLS cannot be statistically confirmed, and its significance remains uncertain.
Health issues at the US-Mexican border   With a rapidly growing population, increasing manufacturing activity, and increased interdependence, health issues on the US-Mexican border are demanding greater attention.  It is unlikely that any other border in the world separates two nations having such variety in health status, entitlements, and utilization.  Binational initiatives in the areas of environmental health and sanitation are clearly needed.  Further cooperation between the United States and Mexico in provision of health services is warranted and will probably require enhanced federal funding or subsidies to be successful.
Nonsurgical treatment of Histoplasma endocarditis involving a bioprosthetic valve.  Endocardial involvement associated with disseminated histoplasmosis has been infrequently documented, especially among patients with prosthetic valves.  The therapeutic approach to these patients is also not yet clearly defined.  A 54-year-old man with prosthetic valve endocarditis due to histoplasmosis was successfully treated with amphotericin B.  A review of the literature suggests that the optimal form of therapy is likely a combination of surgical replacement of the involved valve and high dose amphotericin B.  Successful therapy with amphotericin B alone may, however, be achieved if surgery is not a viable option.
Clue cells in predicting infections after abdominal hysterectomy.  Seventy women scheduled for abdominal hysterectomy were examined for the presence of clue cells in the vaginal discharge in an attempt to identify a possible risk group for development of postoperative infection.  Seven of 20 women (35%) with clue cells developed vaginal cuff infections or wound infections, compared with four of 50 women (8%) without clue cells (P less than .01).  Women with bacterial vaginosis, diagnosed by air-dried vaginal smears, are therefore at risk for postoperative infection.
Diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in transplant patients based on gastrointestinal tract manifestations.  Infection due to cytomegalovirus is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients.  In particular, cytomegalovirus infection has been associated with a significant detrimental effect on patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation.  We are evaluating a new antiviral agent, ganciclovir 9-[1,3-dihydroxy-2-2 propoxymethyl] guanine (DHPG), used in solid-organ transplant recipients who developed life-threatening cytomegalovirus infections.  Between March 1, 1987, and June 30, 1989, we treated 93 solid-organ transplant patients who developed tissue-invasive cytomegalovirus disease.  From this group of patients we have identified 14 patients with primary gastrointestinal cytomegalovirus disease who received treatment with DHPG.  Tissue diagnosis was made by endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract (11 patients) or colonoscopy (three patients).  Invasive cytomegalovirus disease was identified prior to severe complications of the gastrointestinal tract in all but one patient, who suffered colonic perforation prior to treatment with DHPG and subsequently died of bacterial sepsis.  While 13 of the 14 patients improved after treatment with DHPG, four patients required additional treatments for recurrent cytomegalovirus disease and recovered.  No DHPG toxicity was observed.  We believe treatment with DHPG is indicated in this patient population, but that further studies are indicated to fully define the impact of this recommendation on both patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation.
Acute glomerulonephritis in a patient with Rocky Mountain spotted fever.  It is generally assumed that acute tubular necrosis is the etiology of renal failure that can occur during the course of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF).  However, histologic examination of kidneys has been mainly limited to autopsy cases of fulminant infections.  Acute glomerulonephritis due to glomerular immune complex deposition has not been reported in RMSF.  We describe a case of acute oliguric renal failure that developed more than 2 weeks following the onset of RMSF.  Renal biopsy showed acute glomerulonephritis with inflammatory cell infiltration and subendothelial immune deposits.  Thus, acute glomerulonephritis should be in the differential diagnosis of acute renal failure that occurs in RMSF.
Endoscopic findings in Yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis.  The endoscopic findings in the colon and terminal ileum in eight cases of Yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis infection were studied.  The diagnosis was based on the isolation of Y.  enterocolitica in the feces and/or elevated serum antibody titers to the organism.  Total colonoscopy was performed between 7 and 38 days (mean, 24 days) after the onset of symptoms.  In all patients, the terminal ileum was affected, followed by frequent involvement of the ileocecal valve and the cecum, and less frequently, the ascending colon.  In the terminal ileum, round or oval elevations with or without ulcers were detected.  Small ulcers were detected on the ileocecal valve and in the cecum.  These findings were observed even 4 to 5 weeks after the onset of symptoms, suggesting a relatively long course for this disease.
The management of flail chest injury: factors affecting outcome.  The records of 57 patients presenting with flail chest injury from 1981 through 1987 were reviewed to determine factors affecting morbidity and mortality.  Fifteen patients (26%) had 8+ rib fractures with a unilateral flail and seven (12%) had multiple rib fractures with a bilateral flail.  Thirty-two (56%) had moderate-severe pulmonary contusions and 44 (77%) required chest tubes for hemo-pneumothorax.  Ventilatory assistance was used in 36 (63%).  The major factors determining the need for ventilatory assistance were: an ISS greater than or equal to 23, blood transfusions in the first 24 hours, moderate-severe associated injuries (fractures, head injuries or truncal organs requiring operation), and shock on admission (p less than 0.001).  An adverse outcome occurred in 15 (28%); nine required ventilatory assistance greater than or equal to 14 days and six died of sepsis with pneumonia.  The main factors associated with an adverse outcome were: an ISS greater than or equal to 31 (p less than 0.001), moderate-severe associated injuries (p less than 0.001), and blood transfusions (p less than 0.005).  Although the primary determinants of an adverse outcome were the associated injuries and blood loss, a bilateral flail (p less than 0.01) and age greater than or equal to 50 years (p less than 0.02) were contributing factors.
Wound infection following early repeat sternotomy for postoperative bleeding. An experience utilizing intraoperative irrigation with povidone iodine.  A prospective observational study of median sternotomy wound infection was carried out in two consecutive groups of unselected patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy for postoperative haemorrhage.  In Group A the pericardial cavity and sternotomy wound layers were irrigated with aqueous povidone iodine prior to repeat closure, while Group B did not receive povidone iodine.  No median sternotomy infections were recorded in Group A compared to 5 cases in Group B (0 out of 22 vs 5 out of 21 patients, p less than 0.05).  Amongst the patients with wound infection, three developed sternal dehiscence and mediastinitis with one death.  The data suggests that povidone iodine irrigation may be effective in reducing wound infection in patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy after cardiac surgery.
Group B streptococcus: an unusual cause of severe peritonitis in young children treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.  Peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients is only rarely caused by beta-hemolytical streptococci species.  We describe two young children, aged 15 months and 5 years, respectively, who presented an unusually severe course of peritonitis due to group B beta-hemolytical streptococci.  This course of the disease showed a strong similarity with neonatal streptococcal septicemia.  In neonates, IgG2 deficiency is thought to be partly responsible for the severity of this condition.  This may also be true for young children treated with CAPD, since IgG2 deficiency has been established for children.
Increasing resistance of Staphylococcus aureus to ciprofloxacin.  We demonstrated the marked emergence of resistance to ciprofloxacin among Staphylococcus arueus strains isolated at the Ann Arbor Veterans Administration Medical Center.  All S.  aureus isolates tested from 1984 to 1985 were susceptible, whereas 55.1% of methicillin-resistant and 2.5% of methicillin-susceptible strains from 1989 had high-level resistance to ciprofloxacin.
Unsuspected syphilitic hepatitis in a patient with low-grade proteinuria and abnormal liver function   A 25-year-old patient was found to have cholestatic liver enzyme abnormalities during assessment for asymptomatic low-grade proteinuria at the US Naval Hospital in Portsmouth, Virginia.  These abnormalities persisted for a 6-month period, and an extensive workup, including viral serologic studies, rapid plasma reagin test, iron studies, ceruloplasmin, antimitochondrial, antinuclear, and anti-human immunodeficiency virus antibodies, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and liver biopsy, was unrevealing until serologic tests for syphilis were repeated to evaluate a new onset of urethral discharge.  The patient had none of the more characteristic signs of secondary syphilis.  The liver enzyme abnormalities rapidly resolved after treatment with penicillin.  Syphilis remains the great impostor and still must be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained liver enzyme abnormalities, even in a patient with no symptoms or signs of early syphilis.
Postpartum amaurosis.  Blindness is a rare but dramatic complication of pregnancy and delivery.  We present the case of a patient who developed toxemia at the time of delivery that with ineffective treatment resulted in cortical blindness without seizure activity.  The pathogenesis as well as the diagnostic workup and treatment of this unusual complication are discussed.
Epidemiologic characteristics, predisposing factors, and etiologic diagnosis of corneal ulceration in Nepal.  Corneal ulceration is one of the most frequent causes of blindness in developing countries.  Between September 1985 and August 1987, 405 patients with corneal ulceration were examined at Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal.  Males and females were equally affected.  The most common predisposing cause of ulceration was corneal trauma, usually with organic agricultural materials.  Microorganisms were grown from 324 (80%) of the ulcers.  Pure bacterial cultures were obtained from 256 (63.2%) of the patients, whereas pure fungal cultures were obtained from 27 (6.7%) of the patients.  In 41 patients (10.1%), corneal cultures yielded a mixed growth of bacteria and fungi.  Of a total of 398 bacterial isolates, 124 (31.1%) were positive for Streptococcus pneumoniae, the most commonly isolated organism in the series.  Other frequently isolated bacteria included Staphylococcus epidermidis, S.  aureus, and Pseudomonas species.  Of 68 positive fungal isolates obtained, 32 (47.0%) were identified as Aspergillus species.  Candida species and Fusarium species were less commonly seen.
Antibiotics for common infections in the elderly.  A decline in host defense mechanisms and concurrent diseases combine to make the elderly patient particularly susceptible to common infections.  The bacterial cause and antimicrobial sensitivity patterns may also be different in the elderly.  The appropriate selection and dosing of antibiotics for elderly patients with such common infections as pneumonia, bronchitis, urinary tract infections, and skin and soft-tissue infections will optimize the patient's response while minimizing adverse consequences.
Cortisol response to corticotropin and survival in septic shock   Corticotropin stimulation tests were used to assess adrenocortical function in 32 patients with septic shock.  13 patients had a poor cortisol response (rise less than 250 nmol/l) to corticotropin, all of whom died.  However, there were only 6 deaths among the 19 patients with adequate responses (p less than 0.001).  These results suggest that some patients with septic shock may have relative adrenocortical insufficiency.
Methicillin-resistant staphylococcal colonization and infection in a long-term care facility   OBJECTIVE: To determine the natural history of colonization by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) among patients in a long-term care facility.  We specifically sought to determine if MRSA colonization was predictive of subsequent infection.  DESIGN: Cohort study.  SETTING: Long-term Veterans Affairs Medical Center.  PATIENTS: A total of 197 patients residing on two units were followed with regular surveillance cultures of the anterior nares.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENT: The development of staphylococcal infection.  RESULTS: Thirty-two patients were persistent carriers of MRSA and 44 were persistent carriers of methicillin-susceptible strains (MSSA).  Twenty-five percent of MRSA carriers had an episode of staphylococcal infection compared with 4% of MSSA carriers and 4.5% of non-carriers (P less than 0.01; relative risk 3.8; 95% CI, 2.0 to 6.4).  The rate of development of infection among MRSA carriers was 15% for every 100 days of carriage.  Using logistic regression analysis, persistent MRSA carriage was the most significant predictor of infection (P less than 0.001; odds ratio, 3.7).  Seventy-three percent of all MRSA infections occurred among MRSA carriers.  Isolates of MRSA from 7 patients were typed.  Colonizing and infecting strains had the same phage type in all 7 patients and the same pattern of plasmid EcoRI restriction endonuclease fragments in 5 patients.  CONCLUSIONS: Colonization of the anterior nares by MRSA predicts the development of staphylococcal infection in long-term care patients; most infections arise from endogenously carried strains.  Colonization by MRSA indicates a significantly greater risk for infection than does colonization by MSSA.  The results offer a theoretic rationale for reduction in MRSA infections by interventions aimed at eliminating the carrier state.
Esophageal candidiasis in AIDS. Successful therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets taken by mouth.  In this paper we describe the results of oral therapy of esophageal candidiasis with clotrimazole vaginal tablets in 25 homosexual men with AIDS, of whom 19 had oral candidiasis and 16 had esophageal symptoms.  Therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets, 100 mg, taken by mouth cleared the esophageal symptoms, oral candidiasis, and esophageal lesions completely in all 25 men.  Clotrimazole vaginal tablets are a useful alternative to other antifungal agents for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in AIDS patients.
A comparative study of gastrointestinal infections in United States soldiers receiving doxycycline or mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis.  A double blind study of daily doxycycline (100 mg) vs.  weekly mefloquine (250 mg) was performed on United States soldiers training in Thailand to assess the effect of doxycycline malaria prophylaxis on the incidence of gastrointestinal infections.  During a 5 week period, 49% (58/119) of soldiers receiving doxycycline and 48% (64/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine reported an episode of diarrhea.  Infection with bacterial enteric pathogens was identified in 39% (47/119) of soldiers taking doxycycline and 46% (62/134) of soldiers taking mefloquine.  Forty-four percent (59/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 36% (43/119) of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC), while 9% (12/134) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 4% of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with Campylobacter.  Side effects from either medication were minimal.  After 5 weeks in Thailand, the percent of non-ETEC strains resistant to greater than or equal to 2 antibiotics increased from 65% (77/119) to 86% (95/111) in soldiers on mefloquine and from 79% (84/106) to 93% (88/95) in soldiers on doxycycline.  Doxycycline prophylaxis did not prevent or increase diarrheal disease in soldiers deployed to Thailand where ETEC and other bacterial pathogens are often resistant to tetracyclines.
Recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor augments neutrophil recovery and enhances resistance to infections in myelosuppressed mice.  The ability of recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rmGM-CSF) to protect myelosuppressed mice against lethal infections was evaluated.  In mice myelosuppressed by cyclophosphamide, subcutaneously administered rmGM-CSF was a potent stimulus of granulopoiesis by increasing the number of GM-CSF-responsive precursor cells in bone marrow followed by a profound neutrophilia.  Neutrophil recovery was augmented by rmGM-CSF in a dose-dependent manner at daily doses of 0.6-5.0 micrograms/mouse.  In addition, rmGM-CSF increased the functional activity of circulating neutrophils at similar doses.  When rmGM-CSF was administered to neutropenic mice before experimentally induced Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, or Candida albicans infections, it protected against these lethal infections, resulting in increased numbers of survivors.  These data suggest that rmGM-CSF protects neutropenic mice from lethal infections, probably by augmenting neutrophil recovery after myelosuppression and activation of mature cells.
Antibody coated bacteria in urine of patients with recent spinal injury.  Twenty patients with an acute spinal injury were prospectively studied to assess the clinical importance of antibody coated bacteria (ACB) in the urine and the association among the different bacterial species with a positive antibody coated bacteria test.  Clinical urinary tract infection was associated with a positive ACB test on 45% of occasions.  Three hundred and ninety nine urine samples containing 541 bacterial isolates were assessed for the presence of ACB; 13% were found to be positive and 87% negative for ACB; 67% of urines contained a single bacterial isolate.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa was most commonly associated with clinical urinary tract infection, found in 25% of episodes, followed by Proteus mirabilis (17.5%), Klebsiella sp (12.5%), and Proteus morganii (10%).  Providencia stuartii, however, was most commonly associated with a positive ACB test (found in 17%).  Other bacteria associated with a positive ACB test included Klebsiella sp (14%), Acinetobacter sp (12.5%), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (12%), Citrobacter sp (11.5%).  A positive ACB test is not to be expected from a patient with spinal injury who has a catheter in place, and the test may provide a useful guide to identify those patients with an invasive infection.  It is doubtful that a decision to treat or not treat bacteriuria could rest on the identification of the bacterial species alone.
Lymphoproliferative responses to Borrelia burgdorferi in Lyme disease.  OBJECTIVE: To compare lymphocyte proliferative responses to Borrelia burgdorferi in healthy controls and patients with Lyme disease.  PATIENTS: Twelve patients fulfilling case-definition criteria for Lyme disease.  Twelve healthy volunteers and two newborns served as controls.  MEASUREMENTS: Antibodies to B.  burgdorferi were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).  Proliferation of peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 5 days with B.  burgdorferi, recall antigens, or pokeweed mitogen was measured by radioactive thymidine uptake.  RESULTS: Lymphocytes from 11 patients with Lyme disease, 8 healthy seronegative controls, and two newborns showed elevated responses when stimulated with B.  burgdorferi.  When a patient and a control were studied on the same day, the patient's lymphocyte response to B.  burgdorferi exceeded the control's in only 5 of 12 cases.  Lymphocytes from both patients and controls responded to B.  burgdorferi isolates from three different sources.  CONCLUSIONS: Heightened lymphocyte responses to B.  burgdorferi are found in patients with Lyme disease but elevated responses also frequently occur in healthy controls.  At present, the interpretation of a positive lymphocyte response to B.  burgdorferi would be difficult in ambiguous clinical situations.
Issues in cerebrospinal fluid management. CSF Venereal Disease Research Laboratory testing.  Three policies for decreasing unnecessary cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) management Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) tests were compared.  The first policy attempted to educate physicians about the use of serologic tests for diagnosing neurosyphilis but allowed the CSF VDRL to be performed either as a screening test or as a retrospective test.  The second policy required that the CSF VDRL be performed as a retrospective test without regard to the patient's serologic status.  The third policy required that a patient be seropositive by either rapid plasma reagin (RPR) or fluorescent treponemal antibody absorbance (FTA-ABS) before a CSF VDRL could be performed.  Before these policies were instituted, VDRL testing was performed on 18.2% of all CSF samples.  The optional and required retrospective policies decreased the CSF VDRL rate to 13.0% and 8.5%, respectively, but the percentages of seropositive patients for whom these procedures were performed were only 7.3% and 12.9%.  The third policy decreased the CSF VDRL test rate to 1.8% (P less than 0.001) with seropositivity improving to 90%.  To assure serologic tests are obtained in the evaluation of neurosyphilis, requirement for seropositivity must be implemented with the use of retrospective CSF VDRL testing.
Managing prostatitis in the elderly.  Bacterial prostatitis is primarily a disease of elderly men, and it is the most common urinary tract infection seen in this age group.  Urosepsis from prostatitis or prostatic abscess occurs less frequently than with urological manipulation, but must always be considered in elderly men with prostatitis.  This article focuses on the diagnosis and antibiotic treatment of bacterial prostatitis in the elderly.
Discriminate use of electrocautery on the median sternotomy incision. A 0.16% wound infection rate.  Between June 1978 and June 1989, superficial or deep mediastinitis (or both) developed in only five (0.16%) of 3118 consecutive patients.  All patients studied underwent cardiac procedures through a median sternotomy and survived more than 7 postoperative days.  The surgical team disciplined itself to divide presternal soft tissues with a scalpel and used electrocautery for pinpoint hemostasis only.  This 0.16% infection rate was statistically significantly lower than those in 28 previously published studies (Pearson's chi 2 test, p less than 0.05).  Twenty-four predisposing factors were evaluated by Fisher's exact test.  Among these only an operating time longer than 3 hours is related to sternotomy infections (p = 0.0208), and this effect was not a strong one.  Statistical evidence strongly suggests that discriminate use of electrocautery is a major reason for the lowest median sternotomy infection rate reported to date.
Infectious diarrhea. Managing a misery that is still worldwide.  Infectious diarrhea is the largest single cause of morbidity and mortality in the world.  Bacteria, viruses, and protozoan parasites are the most common causative agents.  Treatment in most cases of bacterial and viral diseases consists of correcting fluid loss and electrolyte imbalance by oral or parenteral rehydration.  Antimicrobial therapy is reserved for very ill patients only.  With the exception of Cryptosporidium, for which no effective agent is yet available, all protozoan infections are treatable with metronidazole.
Fungal pulmonary infections after bone marrow transplantation: evaluation with radiography and CT.  The authors reviewed 55 pairs of chest radiographs and computed tomographic (CT) studies obtained in 33 febrile bone marrow transplant (BMT) recipients.  The images were read separately, without knowledge of the clinical diagnosis.  Twenty-one episodes of fungal infection were documented.  One chest radiograph showed a pneumonia-like opacity, and 17 showed nodular opacities, five with cavitation.  In 20 of 21 episodes, CT showed nodules with cavitation (n = 7), halo (n = 4), hazy margin (n = 5), air bronchogram (n = 2), cluster of fluffy nodules (n = 1), or sharp margin (n = 1).  In none of the nine bacteremic episodes, however, were there opacities on chest radiographs or CT studies.  CT studies demonstrating complicated nodules in febrile BMT patients strongly suggest a fungal infection, whereas negative CT studies suggest bacteremia or non-filamentous fungal infection of nonpulmonary origin.  CT appears to add useful information to radiographic analysis during the assessment of febrile episodes in BMT patients, especially when invasive diagnostic procedures pose a high risk.
Three new serovars of Chlamydia trachomatis: Da, Ia, and L2a.  Three new Chlamydia trachomatis serovars were identified by several monoclonal antibodies in the microimmunofluorescence test and are proposed to be called Da, Ia, and L2a.  Each was clearly distinguishable from the related serovars D, I, and L2.  To date, 7, 41, and 4 isolates of the respective serovars have been identified.  Each appears to be distributed worldwide.  The findings meet previously established criteria for establishment of new serovars.
Serologic diagnosis of human ehrlichiosis using two Ehrlichia canis isolates.  Ehrlichia canis or a closely related rickettsial organism has been implicated serologically and morphologically as the causative agent of human ehrlichiosis in the United States.  Although E.  canis has been serially propagated in primary canine monocytes, only a limited quantity of antigen is obtained by this method.  A continuous canine macrophage cell line, DH82, supports the growth of a new isolate of E.  canis established from the whole blood of a carrier dog in Oklahoma.  Serologic comparison of the Oklahoma isolate in the continuous canine cell line with a Florida isolate in commercial antigen slides revealed 100% specificity and 87.5% sensitivity.
Endocarditis in the 80s in a general hospital in Auckland, New Zealand.  The clinical and investigative features of 102 episodes of infective endocarditis were analysed retrospectively.  The most frequent presenting symptoms (malaise, fever, sweats, myalgia, weight loss) were non-specific.  Fever, cardiac murmur, tachycardia, vascular phenomena and a change in mental state were the most common physical signs at admission.  Anaemia was present in half the episodes and renal and liver dysfunction in about one-third.  Streptococci (61) and staphylococci (31) were the causative organisms in all but 10 episodes.  The commonest predisposing factors were underlying cardiac disease (52 per cent) and a preceding focus of infection (14.6 per cent).  Left ventricular failure (33 per cent) and focal neurological disease (29 per cent) occurred frequently.  Valvular surgery was performed in 20 episodes, with two in-hospital deaths.  Overall hospital mortality was 27.5 per cent and death was most commonly neurological (11/28).  A higher mortality was associated with elevated total white blood count, microscopic haematuria, renal or liver dysfunction at admission, S.  aureus endocarditis, the development of left ventricular failure or focal neurological disease, age greater than or equal to 60 years and persistence of fever after one week of antibiotic therapy.  The absence of both renal dysfunction at admission and subsequent microscopic haematuria identified a group with a very low hospital mortality (4.7 per cent).  The three-year mortality of the entire group was 43.5 per cent.
Clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections: mechanisms of death.  Clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined.  The mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial.  Severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths (15.5%).  Pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children (59.2%).  Heart failure (8.5%), hypovolemia (4.2%), and nosocomial infection (12.6%) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection.  Extensive consolidation, squamous metaplasia, and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children.  Patients with severe disease must receive, in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes, individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care.  Since these types of care are not available in poor communities, vaccination against measles and vitamin A supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease.
The direct costs of universal precautions in a teaching hospital.  An analysis of the increase in expenditures for barrier isolation materials before and after the institution of universal precautions at our 900-bed university hospital was used to generate a national estimate of the cost of implementation of the new Centers for Disease Control guidelines.  Following the institution of universal precautions, use of rubber gloves at our hospital increased from 1.64 million pairs of 2.81 million pairs annually.  A 5-year review of hospital purchasing and supply records in both inpatient and outpatient areas indicated that the total annual costs for isolation materials increased by $350,900.  This represented an increase from $13.70 to $22.89 per admission (60%) after adjustment for inflation.  The cost of isolation materials increased from $98 to $215 per 1000 outpatient visits, an adjusted increase of 92%.  Two thirds of the increase (64%) was due to rubber gloves and an additional 25% was due to disposable isolation gowns.  Universal precautions are estimated to have cost at least $336 million in the United States in fiscal year 1989 after adjustment for inflation.  If expenditures for isolation materials at our medical center are representative, previous estimates may have significantly underestimated costs nationwide.
Severity of meningococcal disease: assessment by factors and scores and implications for patient management.  Results from our own and other published series of cases of meningococcal disease were used to study prognostic factors and to compose scores for assessment of severity of disease on admission to the hospital.  The difference in risk for fatality was designated the factor fatality difference (FFD); the FFD was determined by subtracting the percent fatality for factor-negative patients from the percent fatality for factor-positive patients.  FFD was useful for selection of good indicators of severity of disease.  Blood pH of less than 7.35 was the best single factor; low platelet count came next, followed by low blood pressure, cyanosis, ecchymosis, and low blood leukocyte count.  New scores were constructed based on multiple regression analyses.  Several older and new scores seemed to be comparable.  By combining age-adjusted systolic blood pressure (less than 100 mm Hg), cyanosis, ecchymosis, diarrhea before or at admission, cold extremities, absence of nuchal or back rigidity, and rectal temperature of greater than or equal to 40 degrees C, a simple bedside percentage score, the MenOPP bedside clinical score (MOC), was devised.  Cross-evaluations on test materials generally confirmed the choice of score.  The simplicity of this score made it more clinically suitable than laboratory or mixed laboratory and bedside scores.
Bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children: a clinical study.  Bismuth subsalicylate (BSS) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children, aged 4 to 28 months, hospitalized with acute diarrhea.  The dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days.  Significant benefits were noted in the BSS group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency, significant improvement in clinical well-being, and shortening of the disease duration.  Patients treated with BSS had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay (6.9 days) compared with placebo-treated patients (8.5 days).  Also, intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the BSS-treated group.  Bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic Escherichia coli from the stools in 100% of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination.  Bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects.  Blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic.  In this study, BSS provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea, allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff.
Clinical spectrum of fungal infections after orthotopic liver transplantation.  During a 50-month period, we identified 91 episodes of fungal infection in 72 liver transplant recipients (23.8%).  Candida species accounted for 83.5% of cases.  Clinical patterns of fungal infections included disseminated infection (19), peritonitis (17), pneumonitis (15), multiple sites of colonization (13), fungemia (11), and other sites (16).  The diagnosis of fungal infection was usually made in the first 2 months (84.7% of cases), at a mean time of 16 days after transplantation.  Risk factors for fungal infections included retransplantation, Risk score, intraoperative transfusion requirement, urgent status, Roux limb biliary reconstruction (in adults), steroid dose, bacterial infections and antibiotic therapy, and vascular complications.  Fungal infections were successfully treated with amphotericin B in 63 cases (74.1%) but were associated with diminished patient survival (50% vs 83.5%).  Fungal infection is a frequent source of early morbidity and can be related to well-defined risk factors, suggesting the need for effective prophylaxis.
Bacteremia due to Escherichia coli: a study of 861 episodes.  Escherichia coli accounted for 861 (23.9%) of 3,605 episodes of bacteremia in an 18-year prospective survey at St.  Thomas' Hospital, a proportion that changed little during the survey.  The most common focus of infection leading to nosocomial and community-acquired bacteremia due to E.  coli was the urinary tract.  Twenty-six percent of adult female patients with E.  coli bacteremia resulting from a urinary tract infection were diabetic.  The O antigen serotypes identified most often were O6, O2, O1, O4, O15, and O75; the multiply resistant O15 serotype of E.  coli was implicated in a community outbreak of urinary tract infection.  Ampicillin resistance in strains causing community-acquired infection increased to the same level as that of strains causing nosocomial infection (almost 50%).  The overall mortality was 20.7% and was greater in the presence of shock (52.4% vs.  15.3%).  Death due to infection occurred in 2.6% and 10.3%, respectively, of cases with urinary tract and non-urinary tract foci.  The adverse influence of inappropriate initial therapy on outcome was more marked in the latter half of the study.
Adenosine deaminase in the diagnosis of tuberculous pleural effusions. A report of 218 patients and review of the literature.  The activity of adenosine deaminase in the pleural fluid of 218 consecutive patients was studied.  According to the etiology of exudative pleural effusions, the patients were divided into the following five groups: (1) tuberculosis; (2) lung cancer; (3) pneumonias; (4) miscellaneous; and (5) idiopathic.  Patients with pleural tuberculosis presented significantly higher ADA activity than patients with nontuberculous pleural effusions (p less than 0.0001).  The results indicated that in a population with a relatively high prevalence of tuberculosis, the analysis of ADA levels in pleural effusions constitutes a useful marker for the diagnosis which, in addition, can be made quickly and cheaply.  Additionally, a comprehensive review of the literature on the role of ADA in the diagnosis of tuberculous pleural effusions is presented.
Anal submucosal injection: a new route for drug administration. VI. Chronic prostatitis: a new modality of treatment with report of eleven cases.  The anal submucosal route was used for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis in 11 patients.  Prior to presentation, the patients had received different antimicrobial agents; the symptoms disappeared only to recur whenever the drug was discontinued.  After repeated failure, the patients were treated with gentamicin to which the organisms were sensitive, via the anal submucosal route.  A daily injection was given for ten days on an outpatient basis.  The technique of injection is described.  The patients were followed up clinically and by segmented cultures for three years.  No anorectal complications were encountered as had been demonstrated experimentally.  The symptoms of chronic prostatitis disappeared, and culture was negative by the end of treatment and for two to three years thereafter in all patients.  It appears that the antimicrobial agent, via anal route, reaches the prostatic tissues at a higher concentration than that of the serum.  The route adopted by the drug to reach the prostate from the anal submucosa is presented.
Combined use of released proteins and lipopolysaccharide in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serologic screening of Yersinia infections.  An ELISA for the screening of serum antibodies to Yersinia species was developed using plasmid-encoded released proteins of Yersinia enterocolitica O:8 and lipopolysaccharide of Y.  enterocolitica O:3 as a combined antigen.  Of 43 sera from patients infected with one of six different Yersinia serotypes, 40 (93%) were positive in this assay.  When tested using six serotype-specific ELISAs with the corresponding Yersinia bacteria as antigens, 38 (88%) were positive.  This screening ELISA detects antibodies to all virulent yersiniae in one assay and offers the possibility for diagnosis of infections caused by Yersinia serotypes seen only occasionally and not usually included in the serotype-specific ELISAs.  Thus, this ELISA offers a substantial advantage by saving time and money in routine laboratory work.
Infection control in a burn center.  No consensus has been reached on the ideal isolation technique to prevent hospital-acquired infection in the patient with burns.  This study reports four 2-month consecutive periods of microbial surveillance in a burn center intensive care unit.  Phase I, the first period of surveillance, demonstrated a unit-acquired colonization rate of 63%, with the marker organisms appearing at 4 to 8 days.  Direct observation of isolation technique showed a 51% error rate.  A mandatory educational session reviewing the high colonization rates, observed breaks in isolation technique, and principles of infection control failed to decrease the colonization rates as measured in phase II.  A simplified isolation technique was adopted, which led to a decrease in unit-acquired colonization, from 63% to 33% in phase III from phase I values (p = 0.0514); and to a significant delay in inception, from 7.8 to 21 days, in those colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (p less than 0.05).  The simplified isolation technique decreased isolation costs over a 6-month period from $53,000 to $30,000.  To confirm the decrease colonization rates from phase I to phase III, a fourth 2-month surveillance period was undertaken 6 months later.  Phase IV demonstrated similar results to those of phase III.
A phase II clinical trial of carboplatin infusion in high-risk acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia.  Carboplatin (CBDCA) is a second-generation platinum drug that has been shown to be useful when used as a continuous infusion in treatment of refractory adult leukemia.  We report on the effectiveness of continuous infusion CBDCA, 300 mg/m2/d x 5 days, as evaluated in nine patients with secondary acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) (seven previous myelodysplastic syndrome and two treatment-associated ANLL), three ANLL patients in first relapse, six refractory ANLL, and nine patients with blastic phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia (BP-CML).  All patients were considered assessable.  The response rate was 44% (eight complete remissions [CRs], four partial remissions [PRs]).  Median duration of postchemotherapy neutropenia was 36 days (range, 18 to 45).  Therapy was well tolerated, and toxicity was mainly hematologic and nondose-limiting.  Despite prolonged neutropenia, severe infections were rarely seen, and most patients were managed as outpatients.  Twelve patients had nausea and vomiting, two had symptomatic hypomagnesemia, and one patient showed reversible ototoxicity.  Because of substantial antileukemic activity and unusual extrahematologic toxicity, CBDCA appears to be an effective second-line agent in the treatment of ANLL and should be considered for upgrading to first-line treatment regimens.
HIV infection in healthcare workers. How great is the risk? What can be done before and after exposure?  Healthcare workers know that there is a risk of HIV infection through exposure to AIDS patients.  In both hospital and office settings, physicians have the opportunity to set standards and promote education about the degree of risk, effective precautions, and postexposure testing, prophylaxis, and treatment.  Drs Henry and Thurn share the latest findings and offer policy recommendations based on their own experience.
Thoracoscopic debridement and pleural irrigation in the management of empyema thoracis.  As a sequel to a paper reporting good results obtained in 12 patients with empyema thoracis treated by thoracoscopic debridement and irrigation in our department, subsequent experience with a further 18 patients is reported.  Drainage of pus and irrigation resulted in resolution of pyrexia with improvement in general condition in all patients.  Overall, complete resolution was obtained by this technique alone in 60% (18/30).  Of the 12 patients in whom complete resolution was not obtained, secondary surgical measures resulted in resolution of empyema in 8.  Four patients died; all were elderly and severely debilitated, 3 with advanced malignancy.  Their deaths were not related to the technique, which was well tolerated in all cases.  Thoracoscopic debridement and irrigation used routinely as a first-line measure in empyema thoracis is a safe and relatively atraumatic procedure, does not exclude the use of any subsequent surgical measure, and provides valuable time to improve the condition of debilitated patients so that they may tolerate more aggressive surgical procedures.
Bacterial phagocytosis in obstructive jaundice. A microbiologic and electron microscopic analysis.  Reticuloendothelial system dysfunction has been suggested as an explanation for the increased susceptibility to infection in patients with obstructive jaundice.  In the present study, the response of cholestatic rats to a bacterial challenge was investigated and the uptake of bacteria by their Kupffer cells was examined with the electron microscope.  Rats underwent bile duct ligation (BDL, n = 8) of sham celiotomy (SC, n = 8) and were allowed to recover for 10 days.  They were then injected with 10(9) Staphylococcus aureus IV and killed at intervals of 15, 30, 60, and 180 minutes after injection.  Two from each group were killed at each interval.  Quantitative blood cultures were performed, and specimens of liver and lung were obtained for quantitative bacterial culture and processed for electron microscopy.  Bacteria were rapidly cleared from the bloodstream of SC animals but persisted in BDL rats.  Electron microscopy consistently demonstrated bacteria within Kupffer cell phagocytic vesicles of both SC and BDL animals at each interval selected.  There was no morphologic difference in these vesicles between the two groups.  Bacteremia persists in BDL rats subjected to a bacterial challenge despite rapid uptake of bacteria in apparently normal phagocytic vesicles.  This study suggests a defect in intracellular killing of bacteria, an impairment of delivery of bacteria to RE cells, or a combination of these factors.
Beta-lactam resistance mechanisms of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.  In vitro and in vivo activity of amoxicillin and penicillin G alone or combined with a penicillinase inhibitor (clavulanate) were tested against five isogenic pairs of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) producing or not producing penicillinase.  Loss of the penicillinase plasmid caused an eight times or greater reduction in the MICs of amoxicillin and penicillin G (from greater than or equal to 64 to 8 micrograms/ml), but not of the penicillinase-resistant drugs methicillin and cloxacillin (greater than or equal to 64 micrograms/ml).  This difference in antibacterial effectiveness correlated with a more than 10 times greater penicillin-binding protein 2a affinity of amoxicillin and penicillin G than of methicillin and a greater than or equal to 90% successful amoxicillin treatment of experimental endocarditis due to penicillinase-negative MRSA compared with cloxacillin, which was totally ineffective (P less than .001).  Amoxicillin was also effective against penicillinase-producing parent MRSA, provided it was combined with clavulanate.  Penicillinase-sensitive beta-lactam antibiotics plus penicillinase inhibitors might offer a rational alternative treatment for MRSA infections.
Urinary tract infection: economic considerations.  Urinary tract infection results in significant morbidity and mortality while consuming large amounts of national resources.  The prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of urinary tract infection produce both costs and benefits, and economic analysis provides a rational framework for looking at these effects.  The goals and methods of economic analysis in medicine are summarized, and strategies to address uncomplicated cystitis, nosocomial urinary tract infection, and pyelonephritis are reviewed, with an emphasis on the economic trade-offs faced by decision makers.
Antipneumococcal activity of ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, and temafloxacin in an experimental mouse pneumonia model at various stages of the disease.  The efficacy of temafloxacin against Streptococcus pneumoniae in an experimental murine pneumonia model was compared with that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin.  Erythromycin and amoxicillin were used as reference agents.  Subcutaneous administration of antibiotics every 12 h for 3 days was initiated at various times after infection.  The cumulative survival rates of mice treated with temafloxacin at 50 mg/kg were 100%, 92%, 81%, and 50% with treatment beginning 18, 48, 72, and 96 h after infection, respectively.  The activity of temafloxacin at 50 mg/kg was not significantly different from that of erythromycin and amoxicillin but was superior to that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin.  The maximum cumulative survival rates of mice treated with ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin at 100 mg/kg were 67% and 50%, respectively, with treatment beginning 18 h after infection.  Treatment with ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin at 50 mg/kg 18 h after infection did not significantly increase survival rates compared with those of untreated controls.
Etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection in children from Alabang, Metro Manila.  The etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) was identified in 235 (43.8%) of 537 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age.  Clinical evidence of measles was found in 258 (48.0%) patients, of whom 59 had a second viral infection.  A viral agent was identified in an additional 121 patients, so that a total of 379 (70.6%) had viral infections.  After measles, respiratory syncytial virus was the most common respiratory virus.  Bacteremia was noted in 72 children (13.4%), occurring as frequently in children with measles (14.8%) as in those without (12.1%); Haemophilus influenzae and Salmonella typhi were predominant in the former, and H.  influenzae, Staphylococcus aureus, and Streptococcus pneumoniae were prominent in the latter.  The presence of bacterial antigen in urine was not helpful in identifying bacterial infection.  Extrapulmonary and intrapleural complications, concomitant measles, complicated ALRI, female gender, and malnutrition were associated with increased mortality among children with ALRI.  The importance of measles immunization, vitamin A supplementation for alleviation of defects associated with malnutrition, and timely antimicrobial therapy is emphasized.
Acute respiratory tract infections among a birth cohort of children from Cali, Colombia, who were studied through 17 months of age.  For this study, 340 children less than 18 months old from a low-income, urban neighborhood in Cali, Colombia, were observed from birth by means of weekly home visits to detect cases of acute respiratory tract infection.  All suspected cases were confirmed by trained doctors in a special clinic.  Information on symptoms, signs, and potential risk factors was documented prospectively.  Etiologic agents were identified in cases of lower respiratory tract infection (LRI).  The overall incidence of acute respiratory tract infection was 6.6 cases per child-year at risk.  The incidence of upper respiratory tract infection was 4.9 cases per child-year at risk and that of LRI was 1.7 cases per child-year at risk.  Crowding in the home was found to be significantly associated with an increased incidence of LRI.  Respiratory syncytial virus was the viral agent most frequently isolated from cultures of nasopharyngeal aspirates of children with LRI.  Staphylococcus aureus was the bacterial agent most frequently isolated from the blood of patients with LRI.
Postoperative irrigation-suction drainage after pelvic colonic surgery. A prospective randomized trial.  A 2-year randomized prospective clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether postoperative irrigation of the pelvis would result in a decreased incidence of local septic complications.  Two hundred consecutive patients undergoing low pelvic procedures with rectal resection and entry of the presacral space by a single surgeon, were randomized.  In the irrigation group, two of four presacral sump drains were placed to low intermittent suction and the remaining sumps infused continuously with saline until the effluent was clear.  In the drainage alone group, all four presacral sump drains were placed to suction.  Drains were removed when drainage was less than 50 ml/24 hours.  Perioperative antibiotics and bowel preparation were identical.  Postoperative complications included pelvic abscess (n = 7), anastomotic leak/cuff sinus (n = 11), abdominal wound infection (n = 19), and perineal wound infection (n = 5).  Postoperative irrigation of the pelvis did not result in a reduction in the overall rate of local pelvic septic complications.  Positive intraoperative presacral cultures, the presence of anaerobes in the presacral space, and duration of pelvic drainage had no effect on the development of pelvic sepsis.
Use of plasmid profiles in the investigation of a patient with Helicobacter pylori infection and peptic ulcer disease.  Plasmids may effect bacterial virulence and antibiotic resistance, and serve as epidemiologic markers.  In this study, plasmid DNA profiles of serial isolates of Helicobacter pylori showed persistence of an identical strain of this organism in a patient with duodenal ulcer disease.  Three control strains of H.  pylori isolated from other patients contained plasmids different from each other and from that of the original patient; two of these strains had two plasmids each.  These data have important implications for further study of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of H.  pylori-related diseases.
Helicobacter pylori infection rates in relation to age and social class in a population of Welsh men.  The seroprevalence of IgG antibodies to Helicobacter pylori was determined using a standard enzyme linked immunosorbent assay in a population of 749 randomly selected men, aged 30-75 years, from Caerphilly, South Wales.  The overall prevalence of H pylori was 56.9%, increasing sharply in middle age from 29.8% in those aged 30-34 to over 59% in those aged 45 or older (p less than 0.0001).  Age standardised seroprevalence rates were lowest in combined social class categories I and II (49.2%), intermediate in categories IIIN and M (57.5%), and highest in categories IV and V (62.2%) (p = 0.01).  In those aged 30-34 years, the prevalence rate for those in combined social class categories IV and V was 57.9% - double the rate for social class categories IIIM and N (28.3%) and five times the prevalence rate in those in social class categories I and II (11.1%).  These differences in the infection patterns of H pylori by social class are consistent with patterns of peptic ulcer disease and gastric cancer.
Yersinia enterocolitica in the synovial membrane of patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis.  Using a monospecific rabbit antibody against Yersinia enterocolitica outer membrane protein 1, we examined synovial biopsy specimens from 7 patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis.  Yersinia were demonstrated in the synovial membrane by indirect immunofluorescence in 4 patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis, but not in 6 control patients with Salmonella-induced arthritis or with rheumatoid arthritis.  These findings suggest the persistence of Yersinia in the joints of patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis.
Valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and cerebral septic emboli.  Cerebral septic emboli complicate the cases in 20% to 40% of patients with left-sided endocarditis but the management of these patients who require a valvar operation remains unclear.  From 1980 to 1988, the incidence of cerebral septic embolus was 42% (n = 45) among 106 patients with endocarditis who underwent valve replacement at the University of Illinois Hospital in Chicago.  Of these 45 patients, 69% (n = 31) had symptomatic cerebral septic infarctions and 31% (n = 14) were asymptomatic.  Findings on cerebral computed tomographic scans included ischemic infarcts (n = 36, 80%), hemorrhagic infarcts (n = 5, 11%), normal studies (n = 2, 4%), and unknown (n = 2, 4%).  Neurological complications after valve replacement included postoperative strokes (n = 6, 6%), cerebral abscesses (n = 2, 2%), and seizure (n = 1, 1%).  The presence of a hemorrhagic infarct preoperatively predisposed to a perioperative stroke (p less than 0.05).  In conclusion, cerebral septic infarctions, both symptomatic and asymptomatic, are common among patients with endocarditis referred for valvar operation.  In the absence of a hemorrhagic infarct, valve replacement can be performed with minimal risk of a perioperative stroke.
Septic shock and death due to occult sinusitis.  We report a case of septicaemia and death due to occult sinusitis in an otherwise healthy adult.  Septicaemia was diagnosed on clinical grounds and blood culture grew Streptococcus pneumoniae.  Maxillary sinusitis was discovered incidentally on a CT scan four days after the onset of symptoms.  A sinus wash-out revealed pus which on culture was positive for Streptococcus pneumoniae.  The patient deteriorated gradually and died despite appropriate therapy.  We conclude that sinusitis should be suspected in any case of septicaemia where the primary focus is not known and the patient does not respond quickly to treatment.
Detection of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae type b antigens in the serum and urine of patients with pneumonia in Papua New Guinea: comparison of latex agglutination and counterimmunoelectrophoresis.  Latex agglutination (LA) was compared with counterimmunoelectrophoresis (CIE) for the diagnosis of pneumonia due to Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae type b in children less than 6 years old in Papua New Guinea.  Neither LA nor CIE was sufficiently sensitive for the detection of pneumococcal antigens.  CIE was superior to LA but had a sensitivity of only 60% (six of 10) in concentrated urine and a specificity of 90% (54 of 60).  LA for the detection of H.  influenzae type b had a sensitivity of 100% (eight of eight) relative to that of blood culture and a specificity of 99% (112 of 113) when urine diluted fivefold was tested, as compared with a sensitivity of 100% (nine of nine) and a specificity of 92% (56 of 61) in undiluted urine.  Undiluted and concentrated urine specimens were unsuitable for LA because of the many false-positive reactions that resulted from nasal carriage of H.  influenzae type b and nasal carriage of the cross-reactive S.  pneumoniae type 6.  CIE for the detection of H.  influenzae type b had a sensitivity of only 44% (four of nine) in concentrated urine.
Open lung biopsy in the critically ill newborn.  Experience with 17 open lung biopsies in critically ill premature neonates was reviewed.  Despite their small size, prematurity, and near maximal ventilator requirements, the infants suffered no significant complications.  In three cases, an infectious agent was identified.  In one case end-stage lung fibrosis associated with persistent (greater than 3 months), severe respiratory failure prompted termination of support.  In the remainder of the cases, definitively ruling out infection allowed the confident trial of a course of steroids in an attempt to treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia.  Unlike older patients, the definitive diagnosis of no infection in the premature neonate is just as informative as the diagnosis of an infection.  Used judiciously, open lung biopsy can be performed in the premature infant with acceptable morbidity and mortality.
Transient and distant infections alter later intraperitoneal abscess formation.  Transient nosocomial infections, such as line sepsis and pneumonia, are common in today's critical care patient population.  Although generally well treated, the effect of these transient antigen exposures on the immune system is unclear.  We have previously shown that prior intraperitoneal inoculation with live bacteria leads to increased numbers of intraperitoneal abscesses.  Data presented here demonstrate in a murine model that two immunizations with live Escherichia coli, Bacteroides fragilis, or both, administered systemically via intracardiac injection or at a focal distant site in subcutaneous tissue, significantly increased the number of mixed E coli/B fragilis intraperitoneal abscesses when induced 1 week later.  Further, immunization with E coli, either alone or in combination with B fragilis, increased the total number of anaerobes recovered per mouse.  Transient or focal sublethal infections can significantly alter an animal's immune response to later infectious insults, particularly the formation of intraperitoneal abscesses.
Extraction of implanted transvenous pacing leads: a review of a persistent clinical problem.  Within a few months of implantation, permanent pacemaker leads become ensheathed in fibrocollagenous tissue.  This tissue may anchor the lead so that it is difficult, dangerous, or impossible to remove it.  Leads with bulbous or finned tips are particularly resistant to extraction.  The risks of applying traction to an entrapped lead include induction of bradycardia or ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation, invagination of the right ventricle, avulsion of the right ventricular myocardium or tricuspid valve, hemopericardium, and cardiac tamponade.  Forceful traction may result in uncoiling of the conductor, disruption of the insulation, or complete fracture, leaving an intravascular remnant that may embolize or be a source for thrombosis.  Although fixation and abandonment of an inactive chronically implanted lead is frequently appropriate and is known to pose little long-term risk, the retained inactive lead may interact adversely with a new active lead and then increase the risk of venous thrombosis, serve as a potential nidus for infection, or produce spurious electrical sensing signals that may be sensed by the pulse generator.  Absolute indications for lead removal are those in which there would be a life-threatening situation if the lead were to remain in situ.  In the absence of an absolute indication, the decision to proceed with extraction must be made by weighing the potential for serious morbidity or mortality against risks of the extraction technique.  Techniques for lead removal include traction and open cardiotomy operations.  When a portion of the lead is intravascular, forceps, snares, baskets, countertraction, or lead-transection devices may be used to retrieve the fragment.
A rodent model of cirrhosis, ascites, and bacterial peritonitis.  We sought to develop a rodent model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and report here the preliminary results of carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis in which ascites and bacterial peritonitis predictably develop.  Of 41 rats that survived the initial carbon tetrachloride toxicity, 38 (92.7%) developed cirrhosis with ascites.  Of these 38, 21 (55.3%) developed 24 episodes of ascitic fluid infection without iatrogenic colonization.  No surgically treatable source of infection was identified at autopsy in any rat; therefore, the infections were presumed to be "spontaneous." Eight (50%) of the 16 rats with culture-positive ascitic fluid at postmortem examination also had spontaneous pleural fluid infection with the same organism.  Escherichia coli and Proteus sp.  were the organisms most commonly isolated.  This rodent model of cirrhosis with ascites appears to be the first high-yield animal model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.  Ascitic fluid infection in these rats resembles ascitic fluid infection in humans.  This model will allow further investigation of the mechanisms of pathogenesis of ascitic fluid infection and provide insight into the prevention and treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and pleural fluid infection in patients with cirrhosis.
Peritoneal blastomycosis.  Blastomycosis is a systemic fungal infection caused by Blastomyces dermatitidis.  Involvement of the peritoneum is unusual, with only two previously reported cases that occurred in association with disseminated disease.  A single case of histopathologically proven blastomycosis involving the peritoneum is presented, as well as a short overview of previously published cases on gastrointestinal and peritoneal blastomycosis.  The case is unique in that chronic peritonitis was the only manifestation of disease.  The diagnosis was made by laparoscopy.
Sexual transmission of human T-cell leukemia virus type I associated with the presence of anti-Tax antibody.  The tax gene product (Tax protein) of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) is a specific transcriptional activator of the viral long terminal repeat sequence and is essential for the replication cycle of the virus.  To elucidate the relationship between the presence of anti-Tax antibody and the transmission of the viral infection, annual consecutive serum samples from married couples serologically discordant or concordant for HTLV-I were examined.  These included 5 individuals whose spouses seroconverted during this 5-year follow-up study period.  The samples were tested by a Western blot assay using a recombinant Tax protein as the antigen.  The results showed that 24 of 32 (75%) men in the concordant couples (both husband and wife were HTLV-I carriers) had anti-Tax antibody, while only 5 of 18 (27.8%) men in the discordant couples (husband was carrier and wife was seronegative to HTLV-I) were positive for anti-Tax antibody (P = 0.0012).  Furthermore, all spouses of the 5 seroconverters (4 women and 1 man) had anti-Tax antibody, while only 23 of 46 (50%) age-matched randomly selected HTLV-I carriers from the discordant-couple group had anti-Tax antibody.  When the data were analyzed by gender, all husbands of the female seroconverters had anti-Tax antibodies, which was significantly higher than the prevalence of anti-Tax antibodies in men who did not transmit the virus to their spouses during the follow-up period (P = 0.017).  In addition, antibody reactivity to other HTLV-I antigens (including Env gp46, transmembrane protein gp21, and Gag p19 and p24) were examined.  The results indicated no significant differences between the prevalence of antibody reactivity to any of the antigens in the spouses of the seroconverters and the reference group.  We conclude that the presence of anti-Tax antibody in men may indicate a high risk of viral transmission to their wives via heterosexual routes.
Rational use of antibiotics in the critically ill patient.  Despite the advent of newer broad-spectrum antibiotics, infection in critically ill patients still is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.  For these patients, who frequently receive inappropriate and excessive empiric antibiotic therapy, it is important to develop rational drug usage criteria.  Current economic forces, including personnel shortages and the effects of diagnosis-related groups, are also a critical factor in this patient population.  Criteria for rational antibiotic selection are based on patterns of infection and knowledge of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of individual antibiotics.  The development and use of treatment protocols, or algorithms, will provide quality patient care for the lowest overall cost.
Bacterial etiologic agents in the pathogenesis of urinary tract infection.  Most of the information available concerning virulence factors of uropathogens is based on studies of Escherichia coli, the commonest cause of urinary tract infections.  Earlier studies revealed several phenotypic Escherichia coli virulence factors that influenced both the anatomic level and severity of urinary tract infection.  Virulence factors included O antigen serotype, presence and quantity of K capsular polysaccharide, adherence to uroepithelial cells, resistance to serum bactericidal activity, hemolysin, and aerobactin production.  The introduction of DNA hybridization methodology has provided a valuable tool for reevaluation of the epidemiology of Escherichia coli infection as well as an alternative to the conventional phenotypic approach for studying the genotypic basis for virulence.
Protective efficacy of Haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide and conjugate vaccines in children 18 months of age and older.  To evaluate the protective efficacy of polyribosylribitol phosphate (PRP) and polyribosylribitol phosphate-diphtheria toxoid (PRP-D) vaccines in children 18 to 59 months of age, we conducted a case-control study in Los Angeles (Calif) County between July 1, 1988, and July 31, 1989.  Seventy-nine children with invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b disease 18 to 59 months of age were identified, and 212 controls were selected by random-digit telephone dialing methods.  Cases and controls were stratified by age and month of disease onset of the case.  Seventeen PRP vaccine failures and two PRP-D vaccine failures occurred more than 2 weeks after vaccination.  The PRP vaccine was shown not to be effective (point estimate--47%; 95% confidence interval,--307% to 47%), but the PRP-D vaccine was 88% protective (95% confidence interval, 42% to 97%).  Adjustment of the efficacy estimates for potential confounding variables did not change the results significantly.  The PRP-D vaccine provided significantly better protection than the PRP vaccine against invasive H influenzae type b disease in this population.
Large diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm surgery.  The performance of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft used for aortic aneurysm replacement was evaluated.  ePTFE grafts were implanted in 241 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair.  Sixty patients were operated as emergencies for aneurysm rupture and 181 electively.  One hundred and fourteen bifurcated and 127 tube grafts were inserted.  The transperitoneal approach was used in 64 cases and the remainder were placed using a retroperitoneal approach.  There was a one-month mortality of 2.8% in elective and 20% in emergency cases.  Median follow-up was 26 months.  Specific graft complications included one infected graft resulting in a graft-enteric fistula.  No graft rupture, degeneration, dilatation, pseudoaneurysm or late graft limb thromboses were observed in up to 7 years of follow-up.  The aortic ePTFE prosthesis demonstrated satisfactory performance over the period studied.
Risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia after coronary artery bypass graft operations   We attempted to determine risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia in patients undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft operation.  We reviewed the microbiology and medical records for any patient with a sputum culture who had undergone a coronary artery bypass graft operation in 1988 to identify patients with pneumonia according to a standard clinical definition.  We found 19 cases of pneumonia through our initial review; complete medical records were found on 15 cases.  Gram-negative bacilli predominated as the most common etiologic agent causing pneumonia in this cohort.  There were no clusters noted.  Mortality was 26.6%.  Pneumonia occurred approximately 4 days after the operation.  Thirty-six controls were randomly selected from patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1988.  Logistic regression analysis revealed that a history of chronic obstructive lung disease, duration of more than 2 days of mechanical ventilation after operation but before diagnosis of pneumonia, and receipt of gastric acid inhibitors (antacids or H2-blockers) were independent risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia.  Only the last risk factor was amenable to intervention at the time of operation.
Once-daily intramuscular ceftriaxone in the outpatient treatment of severe community-acquired pneumonia in children [published erratum appears in Clin Pediatr (Phila) 1991 May;30(5):326]  Ceftriaxone, a broad spectrum third-generation cephalosporin with a half-life of six to eight hours, was evaluated prospectively in 147 children with severe community-acquired bacterial pneumonia during the period 11/15/88-5/15/89.  Thirty-nine of the children had been unsuccessfully treated with vanous oral antibiotics prior to admission [corrected].  All the patients were initially hospitalized and started on once a day intramuscular ceftriaxone.  Mean duration of ceftriaxone therapy was five days.  Pathogens were recovered from blood cultures of 17 (11.6%) patients and included S.  pneumoniae (13 patients), H.  influenzae (three, all resistant to ampicillin) and S.  viridans (1) [corrected].  All isolates were sensitive to ceftriaxone.  An additional patient had L.  pneumophila diagnosed by serology.  Cure was achieved in 142 (96.6%) patients; improvement was usually observed within 24-48 hours.  After 48 hours, 121 (82.2%) children could be discharged and continued the therapy on ambulatory basis.  Based on previous experience we estimated that 383 hospitalization days were saved.  No serious side effects were observed.  Five patients were considered therapeutic failures; two of them developed empyema and one of them required repeated drainage procedures.  A third patient experienced a relapse of pneumonia shortly after completion of therapy.  The other two remained febrile for more than seven days; their subsequent improvement was unrelated to the antibiotic therapy, suggesting a viral or mycoplasmal syndrome.  Our data suggest that once daily intramuscular ceftriaxone can be successfully used for the outpatient treatment of most community-acquired severe bacterial pneumonias in children.  In our opinion it represents the treatment of choice for patients who failed treatment with other antimicrobials and are clinically stable enough not to require hospitalization.
Pneumococcal pneumonia in a rat model of cirrhosis: effects of cirrhosis on pulmonary defense mechanisms against Streptococcus pneumoniae.  To study alterations in host defense mechanisms that enhance pneumococcal virulence, a model of Streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia was developed in cirrhotic rats.  Cirrhosis, with or without ascites, was produced in rats by intragastric administration of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4).  Histopathologic and laboratory studies demonstrated that CCl4-induced cirrhosis was similar to alcoholic cirrhosis in humans.  Cirrhotic rats were more susceptible to type 3 pneumococcal pneumonia induced by intratracheal challenge than controls, and the presence of ascites was associated with the lowest LD50.  More cirrhotic rats with ascites had bacteremia and elevated levels of circulating capsular antigen after challenge compared with cirrhotic rats without ascites or controls.  Pulmonary clearance of pneumococci was markedly reduced in rats with cirrhosis and ascites and was associated with reduced serum complement levels.  This model may be useful in further studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of pneumococcal infections in the compromised host.
Diagnosing Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis by detecting antibodies against S. aureus capsular polysaccharide types 5 and 8.  Consecutive serum samples from patients with Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis or septicemia or non-S.  aureus endocarditis and febrile nonsepticemic controls were tested for antibodies against S.  aureus capsular polysaccharide (CP) types 5 and 8 by ELISA.  The upper normal antibody levels were defined as the upper 99.5% confidence limits of the values from the febrile controls.  All available patient isolates were tested for the presence of CP type 5 or 8 (85% of the isolates expressed either serotype), and all five patients with S.  aureus endocarditis had positive antibody levels against the corresponding serotype within the first 10 days of infection.  Three other endocarditis patients lacked isolates for CP testing but two of these were positive.  Positive antibody levels were found in 0 of 28 septicemia patients, in 1 of 12 non-S.  aureus endocarditis patients, and in 3 of 37 febrile controls.  Thus, testing for anti-CP 5 or 8 antibodies, especially together with CP serotyping of the patient's isolate, seems to provide important information in the differential diagnosis of endocarditis in patients with S.  aureus septicemia.
Bacterial meningitis: an update.  Antibiotics and improvements in supportive care have greatly reduced the mortality from bacterial meningitis.  Nevertheless, the incidence of neurodevelopmental sequelae remains unacceptably high.  Ampicillin and chloramphenicol remain the standard for antimicrobial therapy against which other agents must be compared.  A number of adjunct therapies are being investigated for their possible effectiveness in reducing hearing loss and other neurologic effects of this disease.  There continues to be a need for carefully performed follow-up studies to assess any possible benefit of these agents.  A significant percentage of children surviving an episode of bacterial meningitis have obvious or subtle neurodevelopmental deficits.  The role of the pediatric neurologist should not end with management of acute problems such as seizures but should be expanded to aid in close developmental monitoring of these high-risk children.
Klebsiella pneumonia in the modern era: clinicoradiographic correlations.  A classic clinical and radiographic picture of Klebsiella pneumonia has emerged in the literature.  Patients are typically male, older than 48 years, and have a history of chronic alcoholism.  The majority of these pneumonias are community acquired.  Bulging interlobar fissures and cavitation are radiographic findings said to be distinctive for Klebsiella pneumonia.  We prospectively studied 15 cases of bacteremically proven Klebsiella pneumonia and found clinical and radiographic features strikingly different from those described in the literature.  Immunosuppression (from corticosteroids, cytotoxic chemotherapy, neutropenia, hematologic malignancy, and transplantation) now rivals alcoholism as the primary risk factor.  Cases tended to be nosocomial rather than community acquired.  Neither bulging interlobar fissure nor cavitation was seen in any case.  The right upper lobe was involved in 11 of our 15 cases.  Pneumonia due to Klebsiella oxytoca was more likely to be isolated from patients with bilateral infiltrates, while Klebsiella pneumoniae was more likely in patients with unilateral infiltrates.
The natural history of urinary infection in adults.  The vast majority of otherwise healthy adults with anatomically and functionally normal urinary tracts experience few untoward long-term consequences from symptomatic or asymptomatic UTIs.  Effective early treatment of symptomatic infection rapidly curtails bacterial invasion and the resulting inflammatory response.  Rarely, uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis causes suppuration and renal scarring.  Urinary infections in patients with renal calculi, obstructed urinary tract, neurogenic bladder, or diabetes are frequently much more destructive and have ongoing sequelae.  Strategies to treat both the infection and the complications are often necessary to alter this outcome.
Results of bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures from adult sickle cell disease patients with the acute chest syndrome.  PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of bacterial pneumonia as a cause of the acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease based on bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures and to describe the clinical, laboratory, and roentgenographic features of the acute chest syndrome in a series composed entirely of adult patients with sickle cell disease.  PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed the hospital records from 19 episodes (18 patients) of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease (greater than or equal to 19 years of age) who had undergone flexible bronchoscopy to obtain lower airway cultures between January 1979 and July 1987.  We also recorded patients' clinical, laboratory, and roentgenographic characteristics.  RESULTS: Pneumonia was diagnosed in four of 19 episodes (21%) of acute chest syndrome based on quantitative cultures obtained at bronchoscopy.  The pneumonia was caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in two patients and mixed aerobic and anaerobic organisms in the other two patients.  Forty-four of 45 blood cultures were negative, and one grew Staphylococcus epidermidis, which was considered a contaminant.  Chest roentgenograms revealed lower lobe involvement in 17 episodes (90%) and bilateral infiltrates in six (32%).  Pleural effusions occurred in seven episodes (37%), and pleural fluid samples obtained from five of these revealed sterile exudates.  CONCLUSION: The results of this retrospective study suggest that bacterial pneumonia is an uncommon cause of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease.  These results are consistent with previous retrospective studies using noninvasive techniques to diagnose pneumonia.  Nevertheless, there appeared to be no reliable noninvasive variables that could accurately differentiate between patients with and without pneumonia and, consequently, we recommend empiric antibiotic therapy in addition to usual supportive care of these patients.
Mycobacterial infection after renal transplantation--report of 14 cases and review of the literature.  During a nine-year period, 14 cases of mycobacterial infection (tuberculosis) developed in 403 renal transplant recipients at the King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, an incidence of 3.5 per cent.  The annual incidence of tuberculosis was about 50 times higher than that in the general population.  Infection was disseminated in nine (64.3 per cent), pulmonary in four (28.6 per cent), and genitourinary in 1 (7.1 per cent).  In one patient tuberculosis was transmitted by the donor's kidney.  The clinical manifestations were often ill-defined and not different from that in the normal host.  Cultures from all patients grew Mycobacterium tuberculosis; concomitant infection with other organisms was present in five patients (35.7 per cent).  Two of 18 patients (group 1) with positive pretransplant tuberculin skin test developed tuberculosis after transplantation (11 per cent), and neither received isoniazid prophylaxis; three of 70 patients (group 2) with negative skin tests developed tuberculosis after transplantation (4.3 per cent).  The difference between the two groups was not statistically significant.  Review of all published cases of mycobacterial infections in renal transplant recipients revealed 130 cases.  Tuberculosis was disseminated in 38.7 per cent, pulmonary in 40.2 per cent, cutaneous in 12 per cent, and miscellaneous in 9.4 per cent.  Atypical mycobacteria were responsible for 29 per cent of disseminated infections, 8 per cent of pulmonary infections and all cases of cutaneous and articular tuberculosis.  Invasive procedures were needed to establish the diagnosis in 21 of 33 disseminated cases but in only three of 47 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis (p less than 0.0001).  The mortality rate from disseminated disease was 37 per cent and from all other forms of tuberculosis was 11 per cent (p less than 0.005).  These findings (1) confirm the higher incidence of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients, compared to the general population; (2) suggest that pretransplant skin testing probably has little value in identifying patients at risk; (3) show that disseminated tuberculosis is common after renal transplantation and requires invasive procedures for diagnosis; (4) confirm that the donor kidney may be an important source of infection; and (5) indicate that concomitant infection with other organisms is common.
Borrelia burgdorferi infection of the brain: characterization of the organism and response to antibiotics and immune sera in the mouse model   To learn more about the neurologic involvement in Lyme disease, we inoculated inbred mice with the causative agent of Lyme disease, Borrelia burgdorferi.  We cultured brains and other organs, and measured anti-B burgdorferi antibody titers.  We further studied a brain isolate for its plasmid DNA content and its response in vitro to immune sera and antibiotics.  One strain of B burgdorferi, N40, was consistently infective for mice, and resulted in chronic infection of the bladder and spleen.  SJL mice developed fewer culture-positive organs and had lower antibody titers than Balb/c and C57Bl/6 mice.  Organism was cultured from the brain early in the course of infection, and this isolate, named N40Br, was further studied in vitro.  The plasmid content of N40Br was different from that of the infecting strain, implying either a highly selective process during infection or DNA rearrangement in the organism in vivo.  N40Br was very sensitive to antibiotics, but only after prolonged incubation.  Immune sera from both mice and humans infected with B burgdorferi were unable to completely kill the organism by complement-mediated cytotoxicity.  These data demonstrate that B burgdorferi infects the brain of experimental animals, and is resistant to immune sera in vitro but sensitive to prolonged treatment with antibiotics.
Spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer.  Fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to Hope Hospital, none being judged to be in a terminal condition.  One patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief.  There were three failures.  Twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation.  Of these, 20 had major recovery of neurological function.  Patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had 'prophylactic' decompression at the time of stabilisation; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression.  The results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation.  Postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible, and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy, as indicated.
Lag screw fixation of mandibular angle fractures.  This article presents a technique of applying lag screws for treating fractures of the mandibular angle.  A review of 30 patients who had lag screws placed to treat such fractures showed that it is an extremely useful, but technique-sensitive, method of providing rigid internal fixation.  The advantages and complications of this technique over bone-plate fixation are discussed.
Application of the polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence techniques to the detection of bacteria in Yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis.  Leukocytes in synovial fluid and peripheral blood samples from patients with Yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis were analyzed after DNA amplification using the polymerase chain reaction.  The primers applied were specific for the virulence plasmid-coded 1crE genes of Yersinia enterocolitica O:3 and Yersinia pseudotuberculosis III.  No Yersinia DNA was observed within the synovial fluid cells or peripheral blood cells by polymerase chain reaction techniques.  However, Yersinia antigens were detected in the synovial fluid cells by immunofluorescence techniques.  These results suggest that only parts of the causative agents, not the entire microbe, can enter the joint and initiate the inflammation that leads to a reactive arthritis.
Haemophilus influenzae: an important cause of maternal and neonatal infections.  Although Haemophilus influenzae is recognized as a major pathogen of infants, its role in maternal and neonatal infections is not as well appreciated.  We analyzed the records of all mothers and neonates infected with H influenzae over a 10-year period.  Twenty-eight mother/neonate sets were identified in which at least one had documented infection with H influenzae.  Of the 18 mothers with documented infection, 13 had chorioamnionitis, endometritis, or both, and two of these mothers were bacteremic with H influenzae.  Of the 23 infected neonates, 15 presented with early sepsis and/or pneumonia and nine had conjunctivitis.  During the period of the study, only group B streptococci and Escherichia coli were more common as causes of early neonatal bacteremia.  Under the conditions of this retrospective study, maternal infection predicted neonatal infection.  However, prospective studies in which asymptomatic patients are cultured will be required to determine how well maternal colonization/infection with H influenzae predicts neonatal infection.
Fatal fungal pericarditis after cardiac surgery and immunosuppression.  The cases of two patients with fulminant pericarditis after cardiac surgery are reported.  Both fungal infections developed after rethoracotomy for open-chest cardiac resuscitation and high-dose glucocorticoid treatment.  Although the time course of both infections from the inoculation of fungi during rethoracotomy and immunosuppression with glucocorticoids to the lethal outcome was strikingly similar, histopathologic studies disclosed the disparate character of the two fungal pathogens responsible: the yeast Candida albicans and the angiotropic mold Aspergillus fumigatus.
Disseminated Pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome.  Extrapulmonary infection with Pneumocystis carinii (P.  carinii) in AIDS patients is uncommon, and is often described only at postmortem examination.  Although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen, P.  carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described.  Despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in AIDS patients with a history of P.  carinii pneumonia, P.  carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver.  We present a well-documented case of P.  carinii involving the liver in an AIDS patient with P.  carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities.  We suggest that P.  carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of AIDS-related liver disease.
Urinary tract infection in the impaired host.  In general, defects in phagocytosis and in humoral or cellular immunity do not appear to predispose to the acquisition of UTI but do influence the clinical manifestations and the severity, microbiology, and complications of infection once it is established.  The incidence of UTI in immunosuppressed patients other than diabetics or renal transplant recipients is not higher than the incidence in nonimmunosuppressed individuals.  The higher frequencies of infection seen in diabetics and in renal transplant recipients correlate best with the duration of bladder instrumentation rather than with glycosuria or immunosuppressive regimen.  Neutropenia blunts the clinical manifestations of UTI and predisposes to bacteremia.  Use of broad spectrum antibiotics results in alterations in indigenous flora, promotes urinary infections with resistant nosocomial pathogens, and predisposes to fungemia with hematogenous seeding of the urinary tract.  Routine screening for detection of asymptomatic bacteriuria and prompt institution of antimicrobial therapy is indicated only in renal transplant recipients within 3 months of their surgery and not in any of the other diseases discussed.
Profound papilledema due to cryptococcal meningitis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: successful treatment with fluconazole.  Although cryptococcal meningitis is a frequent infection in patients with AIDS, papilledema is rarely reported.  We have reported a case of profound papilledema associated with cryptococcal meningitis in a patient with AIDS.  After treatment failure with amphotericin B, the patient was successfully treated with fluconazole, and the papilledema resolved.
Postanginal sepsis with dysphagia.  We have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis.  Streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy, and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis.  The patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics.
Lyme disease: neurologic and ophthalmic manifestations.  Lyme disease is tick-borne infection which produces early and late manifestations in many organ systems.  Prominent symptoms and signs occur in skin, heart, joints and nervous system.  Many ocular and neuro-ophthalmic abnormalities recently have been attributed to Lyme disease, but some cases have not been well established as direct sequelae.  This review of the contemporary state of knowledge about Lyme disease was undertaken so that more rigorous criteria can be applied in future diagnosis.
Adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura. A study of 35 cases, 1977-1989.  The study objective was to describe the clinical, biologic, and hemodynamic features of adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura and to examine the prognostic factors by multivariate analysis at the time of admission to the intensive care unit.  Thirty-five patients (greater than or equal to 13 years of age) with meningococcal infection, circulatory shock, and generalized purpuric lesions of abrupt onset were recorded in eight intensive care units from 1977 to 1989.  The patients were young (mean age, 26.6 years; range, 13 to 68 years) and had been previously healthy.  The female-to-male ratio was 3:1.  Mortality was 54.3%, with most deaths occurring within the first 48 hours, usually secondary to irreversible shock with multiple organ failure.  Ischemic complications (eight cases), prolonged heart failure (seven cases), and secondary septicemia (five cases) were the chief complications among survivors.  Initial hemodynamic study after volume loading showed low stroke volume index (mean +/- SD, 29.4 +/- 13 mL/m2) and tachycardia (mean +/- SD, 138 +/- 16 beats per minute), a profile suggesting a greater myocardial depression than usually observed in gram-negative bacillary septic shock.  Univariate prognostic analysis showed that four variables at the time of admission were associated with fatal outcome: a plasma fibrinogen level of 1.5 g/L or less, a factor V concentration of 0.20 or less, a platelet count lower than 80 x 10(9)/L, and a cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count of 20 x 10(6)/L or less.  Stepwise regression analysis showed that low fibrinogen level (less than or equal to 1.5 g/L) was the sole adverse prognostic variable (odds ratio = 2, 95% confidence interval, 1.5 to 2.7).  Adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura is still associated with high mortality and morbidity.  Low fibrinogen level at time of admission may permit early recognition of the most severely ill patients.
Balloon valvuloplasty for fungal endocarditis induced stenosis of a bioprosthetic tricuspid valve.  Palliative treatment was provided without complications by double balloon valvuloplasty of a stenotic porcine tricuspid valve in a patient with fungal endocarditis.  With two 15 mm diameter valvulotomy balloons the peak tricuspid gradient decreased from 21 to 7 mm Hg and valve area increased from 0.3 to 1.2 cm2.  After the procedure the patient clinically improved; however, valve replacement was not performed as planned because the patient developed an intracranial hemorrhage.  She subsequently died of complications of fungemia.  The present report demonstrates the possible use of valvuloplasty as a palliative procedure in selected patients with valvular stenosis involved with endocarditis.
Aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic factors and recovery of beta-lactamase producing bacteria from obstetric and gynecologic infection.  Specimens obtained from 736 patients with obstetric and gynecologic infections were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria.  Bacterial growth was present in 714 specimens.  These included 53 specimens of infected fallopian tubes, 470 of infected endometrium, 94 of infected amniotic fluid, 57 of aspirates of cul-de-sacs in instances of pelvic inflammatory disease, 14 labial and vaginal abscesses and 26 of Bartholyn's cyst abscess.  A total of 2,052 isolates (2.9 per specimen), 1,139 anaerobes (1.6 per specimen) and 913 aerobic or facultative (1.3 per specimen) were recovered.  The most commonly isolated anaerobic bacteria was Bacteroides species (566 isolates), which included Bacteroides bivius (151), Bacteroides fragilis group (130), Bacteroides melaninogenicus group (110) and Bacteroides ureolyticus (47).  Others included an anaerobic gram-positive cocci (391), Clostridium species (48) and Fusobacterium species (36).  The most frequently recovered aerobic and facultative bacteria were Lactobacillus species (169), Escherichia coli (85), Neisseria gonorrhoeae (62), Staphylococcus aureus (59) and Group B streptococcus (55).  Three hundred and sixty-five (18 per cent) of the isolates recovered from 276 (39 per cent) patients were beta-lactamase producing organisms (BLPO); 222 (61 per cent) anaerobes and 143 (39 per cent) aerobes or facultatives.  The most common BLPO were B.  fragilis group, B.  bivius, B.  melaninogenicus, B.  disiens, Enterobacteriaceae and S.  aureus.  These data illustrate the polymicrobial nature and important role of BLPO in obstetric and gynecologic infection.
Technetium-99m-human polyclonal IgG radiolabeled via the hydrazino nicotinamide derivative for imaging focal sites of infection in rats.  The biologic behavior of human polyclonal immunoglobulin (IgG) radiolabeled with technetium-99m (99mTc) by a novel method, via a nicotinyl hydrazine derivative, was evaluated in rats.  Technetium-99m- and indium-111-IgG were co-administered to normal rats and biodistribution was determined at 2, 6, and 16 hr.  The inflammation imaging properties of the two reagents were compared in rats with deep-thigh infection due to Escherichia coli.  Blood clearance of both antibody preparations was well described by a bi-exponential function: (99mTc-IgG: t1/2 = 3.82 +/- 0.89 and 57.52 +/- 1.70 hr.  111In-IgG: 3.93 +/- 0.117 and 40.71 +/- 1.26 hr).  Biodistributions in the solid organs were similar, however, small but statistically significant differences were detected: 99mTc-IgG greater than 111In-IgG in lung, liver, and spleen; 99mTc-IgG less than 111In-IgG in kidney and skeletal muscle (p less than 0.01).  At all three imaging times, target-to-background ratio and percent residual activity for the two compounds were remarkably similar.  These studies establish that human polyclonal IgG labeled with 99mTc via a nicotinyl hydrazine modified intermediate is equivalent to 111In-IgG for imaging focal sites of infection in experimental animals.
Corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy.  Leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity.  In this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined, and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected.  Twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls.  Various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2% of leprosy patients.  Lagophthalmos, chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis, iris atrophy, and social blindness were found 4.5-16.6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity.
The incidence of ulcerative keratitis among aphakic contact lens wearers in New England.  We conducted a population-based incidence study in five New England states to quantify the risk of ulcerative keratitis associated with contact lens use among aphakic persons.  All practicing ophthalmologists in the five-state area were surveyed to identify prospectively all new cases of ulcerative keratitis during a 4-month period.  The number of aphakic persons using specific types of contact lenses was estimated through a telephone survey of 4178 households identified by random digit dialing.  The annualized incidence of ulcerative keratitis among aphakic persons using contact lenses was estimated to be 52 cases per 10,000 aphakic contact lens wearers (95% confidence interval (CI), 31.1 to 86.9).  The risk of ulcerative keratitis varied substantially by lens use, with extended wear having an estimated sevenfold greater risk relative to daily wear (95% CI, 1.6 to 30.2).  Rates of ulcerative keratitis in aphakic persons using contact lenses were much greater than rates among cosmetic wearers of the same lens type: for daily-wear lenses, aphakic persons were estimated to have 6.3 times the risk of cosmetic wearers (95% CI, 1.9 to 21.0), and for extended-wear lenses, aphakic persons were estimated to have 8.7 times the risk of cosmetic wearers (95% CI, 3.5 to 21.9).  These risks are useful in assessing the benefits and risks of contact lens wear as an alternative to other methods of aphakic correction.
Impairment of neutrophil chemotactic and bactericidal function in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and partial reversal after in vitro exposure to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor.  Because polymorphonuclear neutrophils are the most important component of host defense against bacteria, we assessed their function in 13 children with asymptomatic and 12 with symptomatic infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), and compared their values with healthy adult control values.  The functions assessed were (1) chemotaxis, (2) bacterial phagocytosis, (3) superoxide generation, and (4) bactericidal activity.  Chemotaxis of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward the chemoattractant N-formylmethionyl leucyl phenylalanine (FMLP) was significantly decreased in symptom-free infected children compared with control subjects (p less than 0.0001), but was increased in children with symptomatic infection (p less than 0.025).  Bactericidal activity of the neutrophils against Staphylococcus aureus was defective in 8 of 12 children with asymptomatic infection (p = 0.016), and in 8 of 9 children with symptomatic infection (p less than 0.00001).  Superoxide generation by polymorphonuclear neutrophils on stimulation with FMLP and phagocytosis of S.  aureus were normal.  Serum from patients with symptomatic HIV-1 infection was not as efficient in low concentrations as normal serum in the ability to opsonize S.  aureus.  The in vitro bactericidal defect was partially corrected by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF).  The results suggest that both cellular (neutrophils) and humoral defects contribute to the increased incidence of bacterial infections in HIV-1-infected children, and that GM-CSF may improve the defective bactericidal activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in these patients.
Progressive osseous destruction as a complication of HIV-periodontitis.  A pathologic condition is described, characterized by rampant necrosis of gingival mucosa, periodontium, and related osseous structures associated with systemic infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).  It is believed that this condition is an extension beyond the normal clinical course of HIV-periodontitis (HIV-P) and manifests itself in three progressive stages: (1) HIV-associated gingivitis, (2) HIV-P, and (3) an extension of HIV-P to osseous necrosis.  Two cases of osseous destruction attending HIV-P are reported, one of which led to initial diagnosis of HIV infection.  They represent the final stage of disease progression with localized necrosis of gingiva, periodontium, and alveolar bone.
Instillation of vancomycin into a cerebrospinal fluid reservoir to clear infection: pharmacokinetic considerations.  Vancomycin instilled in an Ommaya reservoir was used to treat a reservoir-associated infection.  Vancomycin concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were measured, and derivation of pharmacokinetic parameters allowed tailoring of dosing.  First-order kinetics were observed.  The calculated half-life of 3.52 h was less than reported by others, and the apparent volume of distribution (60 ml) was less than anticipated.  The elimination constant was 0.197 h-1.  Empiric dosing based on schedules suggested in the literature would have led to high peak and low mean concentrations of intrareservoir vancomycin.  Patients with reservoir-associated infections have a variety of pathophysiologic conditions that can result in alteration of normal CSF dynamics.  Pharmacokinetic analysis is useful to individualize dosing and to optimize therapy with intrareservoir vancomycin.
Surgical outcome in 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the Iran-Iraq War.  Variables important in predicting the final postsurgical outcome of 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the Iran-Iraq War were evaluated over a 99-month period.  The type of projectile, site of injury, and presence or absence of foreign material did not seem to have a significant effect on the final outcome.  Of the patients with a perforating type of injury, 48.8% had a poor surgical outcome as compared with 19.9% with a penetrating type and 15.6% with a tangential type.  This difference is statistically significant (chi 2 = 14.7 and 17.1, respectively; p less than 0.001).  The most important factor in predicting overall outcome was the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score at the time of admission.  Mortality and morbidity contributing to a poor surgical outcome were noted in only 6% of patients with a GCS score at admission of 13 to 15, in 24.6% of those with a GCS score of 9 to 12, in 57% of those with a GCS score of 6 to 8, and in 65% of those with a GCS score of 3 to 5.  Of the 71 patients who died, 75% had a score of 3 to 8.  Perforating projectiles or those traversing two or more dural compartments were statistically significant in contributing to mortality and morbidity (chi 2 = 17.2; p less than 0.001).  The incidence of focal neurological deficit was 100, 90.6, 88, and 52.2% in patients with GCS scores of 3 to 5, 6 to 8, 9 to 12, and 13 to 15, respectively.  The two best predictors of mortality in this group of patients were a low GCS score and infection.
Bacterial meningitis in neonates and children.  A high index of suspicion of meningitis is needed when evaluating neonates and young infants because clinical findings can be minimal and are often subtle and nonspecific.  Analysis of the CSF constitutes the most effective method to document meningeal bacterial infection, although overlap with normal CSF values can occur, especially in newborns and very young infants.  The introduction of highly active third-generation cephalosporins (ceftriaxone, cefotaxime) and their safety and efficacy in treating a broad array of bacterial pathogens that cause meningitis in all age groups has simplified selection of initial antibiotic therapy.  In neonates, however, conventional antibiotic therapy with ampicillin and an aminoglycoside is appropriate because of its proven record of safety and efficacy, and because routine use of cephalosporins in the hospital nursery could lead to selection of resistant strains among gram-negative enteric bacilli.  Despite the availability of modern intensive care management of infants and children with bacterial meningitis and the advent of potent antibiotics, case fatality rates and morbidity remain high.  Because of this, recent research has focused on the complex interaction between bacteria and the host and on means to attenuate the meningeal inflammatory response.  The clinical benefits demonstrated recently with the use of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis underscore the importance of anti-inflammatory therapy to reduce audiologic and neurologic sequelae.  Future studies of new methods to modulate meningeal inflammation such as the use of monoclonal antibodies directed against cytokines or of agents that interfere with leukocyte-endothelial interactions are indicated.  The implication of routine H.  influenzae type b immunization in young infants with the conjugated vaccines and optimal intrapartum prophylaxis against group B streptococcal disease in newborns will have an important impact on the incidence of meningitis in infants and children.
Association of Escherichia coli HEp-2 adherence patterns with type and duration of diarrhoea.  373 (59%) out of 636 faecal specimens obtained during the first 2 years of life of 72 Mexican children yielded adherent Escherichia coli (HEp-2 cells).  Strains with localised adherence were significantly associated with acute non-bloody diarrhoea, whereas strains with aggregative adherence were significantly associated with persistent diarrhoea.  Half the strains with localised adherence were not enteropathogenic E coli serotypes nor did they hybridise with an enteropathogenic E coli adherence factor DNA probe.  All strains with localised adherence gave a positive fluorescent actin staining (FAS) assay, irrespective of serotype.  One-third of children colonised by aggregative strains had bloody diarrhoea.  Isolation of strains with diffuse adherence was not related to type or duration of diarrhoea but was generally associated with isolation of another pathogenic organism.
Diagnoses of acute lower respiratory tract infections in children in Rawalpindi and Islamabad, Pakistan.  A hospital-based inpatient and outpatient study of 1,492 cases of acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) was conducted from November 1986 to March 1988 in two hospitals in Rawalpindi and Islamabad, Pakistan.  Specimens of nasopharyngeal aspirate were processed for viral studies in all cases; blood cultures were performed in 1,331 cases; and urine was obtained for detection of bacterial antigen in 378 cases, but 227 of these samples had bacterial contamination and were discarded.  Respiratory syncytial virus was identified in 33% of cases, and Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae were identified in 9.6% and 9.9% of cases, respectively.  Nonencapsulated H.  influenzae accounted for 32% of the Haemophilus isolates, and type b was the only encapsulated H.  influenzae strain identified.  Of the S.  pneumoniae serotypes isolated, 31% are not included in the currently available polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine.  No clinical characteristic was demonstrated to be a reliable indicator for bacterial ALRI.
Ehrlichiosis in children.  Tick-borne rickettsiae of the genus Ehrlichia have recently been recognized as a cause of human illness in the United States.  In the years 1986-1988, 10 cases of ehrlichiosis were diagnosed in children in Oklahoma.  Fever and headache were universal: myalgias, nausea, vomiting, and anorexia were also common.  Rash was observed in six patients but was a prominent finding in only one.  Leukopenia, lymphopenia, and thrombocytopenia were common laboratory abnormalities.  Six patients were treated with tetracycline, three with chloramphenicol, and one was not treated with antibiotics: all recovered.  The onset of illness in spring and early summer for most cases paralleled the time when Amblyomma americanum and Dermacentor variabilis are most active, suggesting that one or both ticks may be vectors of human ehrlichiosis in Oklahoma.
Antistaphylococcal activities of teicoplanin and vancomycin in vitro and in an experimental infection.  The efficacies of vancomycin and teicoplanin in an experimental Staphylococcus aureus infection in granulocytopenic mice were related to their activities in vitro and their pharmacokinetic profiles.  In vitro teicoplanin had a higher intrinsic activity than vancomycin did; and it also had a more favorable pharmacokinetic profile, resulting in higher peak concentrations in plasma, a longer elimination half-life, and a larger area under the concentration-time curve than those of vancomycin.  To predict the antibacterial efficacies of the drugs in vivo on the basis of their activities in vitro and pharmacokinetics, a mathematical model was applied.  In the model the in vitro effect was expressed as the difference in growth rate between control cultures and those in the presence of the antibiotic (ER), and the in vivo effect was expressed as the difference between numbers of CFU in control and antibiotic-treated animals (EN).  The integral of ER against time, ERt, was calculated by using the concentrations found in vivo.  A significant linear relationship was found between EN and ERt for different dosages at the same times (4 h) after drug administration as well as for the same doses at consecutive times, although at the lowest doses of teicoplanin the observed effect was less than the predicted effect.
Hydroxyethyl starch pretreatment in bacteremic sheep.  Live bacteria were infused in a chronic ovine lung lymph model to determine if a preceding infusion of the colloid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), exaggerated the cardiopulmonary dysfunction or impaired removal of bacteria by macrophages in the pulmonary circulation.  HES was infused (3 mL/kg/hr; n = 6) from 24 to 12 hr before the bacteria and decreased plasma protein content and increased pulmonary lymph to plasma protein concentration because of its oncotic properties.  Ringer's lactate (2 mL/kg/hr) was given after stopping HES and also to the control group (n = 6).  Infusion of live Ps.  aeruginosa (2.5 x 10(8) Ps./min for approximately 30 min) induced equivalent pulmonary hypertension, increased pulmonary microvascular permeability, and cardiovascular depression in the two groups.  The removal of bacteria in the lungs was not affected, indicating that this measurement of the function of the mononuclear phagocytic system was not impaired by the preceding HES.
Tumor necrosis factor and severe malaria.  To investigate the relation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) to Plasmodium falciparum infection, plasma TNF alpha concentrations were measured in Zairian children with severe malaria, mild malaria, or other illnesses.  The initial geometric mean plasma concentration of TNF alpha among 61 children with P.  falciparum infection, (71 pg/ml) was higher than the level in 26 severely ill, aparasitemic children (10 pg/ml; P less than .001).  Among 29 parasitemic children, initial geometric mean TNF alpha levels decreased from 77 to 5 pg/ml (P less than .001) at day 7.  TNF alpha levels increased with parasite density and were associated with hyperparasitemia, severe anemia, hypoglycemia, and young age but not with cerebral malaria or fatal outcome.  However, TNF alpha levels were elevated equally in children with cerebral malaria and with other signs of severe malaria.  With multiple linear regression, TNF alpha levels were elevated independently in children with hyperparasitemia (P = .001) and severe anemia (P = .04).  In this study, high TNF alpha levels were associated with several manifestations of severe malaria and were not specific to cerebral malaria.
Serotypes of respiratory isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae compared with the capsular types included in the current pneumococcal vaccine.  The serotypes of 474 clinically significant Streptococcus pneumoniae respiratory isolates collected during a national surveillance study in 1987-1988 were compared to the capsular types included in the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine licensed for use in the United States.  Overall, 355 isolates (74.9%) belonged to types included in the current vaccine, while another 65 (13.7%) were types serologically related to vaccine types and likely to be protective by virtue of cross-reactivity.  Relatively few isolates (9.1%) belonged to nonvaccine serotypes, and only 2.3% were nontypable.  The mucoid serotype 3 was most frequent (13.1% of total), followed by 19F (9.3%), 23F (7.4%), 6B and 14 (5.7% each), and 4 and 6A (5.5% each).  The most frequent type not included in the vaccine was type 16 (2.1% of all isolates).  Thus, nearly 89% of respiratory isolates included in this study were encompassed within the antigenic spectrum of the currently marketed pneumococcal vaccine.
Candida pyelonephritis complicating traumatic C5 quadriplegia: diagnosis and management.  We present the first reported case of Candida pyelonephritis in a spinal cord injured patient.  In addition to multiple courses of empiric antibiotics, the neurogenic bladder and alteration in cell-mediated immunity found in spinal cord injured patients may have increased this patient's susceptibility to fungal disease.  A 50-year-old patient with C5 motor functional quadriplegia developed Candid albicans pyelonephritis while undergoing rehabilitation.  The patient had several surgical procedures and multiple courses of antibiotic therapy during acute hospitalization.  He continued to have a hectic fever curve, leukocytosis with increased band forms, lethargy, and progressive uremia during rehabilitation.  Successful investigation of the patient's condition included assessment of serologic tests for Candida precipitin antigen; multiple blood and urine cultures; exclusion of other causes of hectic fever; abdominal computerized tomogram, which revealed a left kidney hypodensity with irregular margins; and a retrograde pyelogram, which demonstrated multiple renal pelvic-filling defects.  Cystoscopically placed ureteral stents, which relieved the genitourinary obstruction, drained gross pus from which Candida albicans was cultured; the patient was treated with amphotericin B and showed clinical improvement.  Pathogenesis, presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of Candida pyelonephritis are reviewed.
Urinary tract infection caused by Corynebacterium group D2: report of 82 cases and review.  Corynebacterium group D2 (CGD2) is a slow-growing, urea-splitting, multiantibiotic-resistant microorganism that is frequently isolated from urine samples and that, in certain circumstances, produces infection of the lower urinary tract (acute and chronic cystitis) and the upper urinary tract (pyelonephritis).  This paper analyzes (by means of a retrospective and partially prospective clinical protocol) our experience with 82 patients with CGD2 bacteriuria.  The infection was symptomatic in 62% of cases, and the clinical diagnoses included acute and chronic cystitis and pyelonephritis with or without bacteremia.  Because CGD2 infection of the urinary tract may require specific antimicrobial treatment and because CGD2 is a fastidious microorganism, we recommend prolonged incubation of urine cultures (up to 48-72 hours), especially if the routine culture is negative, when patients are symptomatic, have alkaline urine, or have struvite crystals in the urine sediment.
The role of infection in the morbidity and mortality of patients with head and neck cancer undergoing multimodality therapy.  Cancer of the head and neck is a common cancer worldwide.  The majority of patients present with locally advanced disease.  Recently a great deal of improvement has been made in multimodality therapy of this disease, warranting more careful consideration of factors affecting quality of life, disease course, and treatment.  Infection is clearly a factor.  Analysis of 662 hospital admissions of 169 head and neck cancer patients was performed.  A definite infection was documented in 86 febrile episodes, pneumonia contributed to 40%, bacteremia to 13%, skin and soft tissue infection to 12%, and tracheobronchitis to 10%.  Among the evaluated risk factors, foreign bodies, specifically intravenous (IV) cannulae and gastrostomy tubes, race, performance status, alcohol intake, and nutritional status were statistically significant variables that predicted for or were associated with infection.  Infection contributed to 44% of the deaths.
A comparison between single and double dose intravenous Timentin for the prophylaxis of wound infection in elective colorectal surgery.  A prospective, randomized, single-blind, controlled clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether two doses of systemic Timentin provided superior prophylaxis against postoperative sepsis in elective colorectal surgery compared with a single dose of the same antibiotic.  Timentin, a combination of ticarcillin and clavulanic acid was administered intravenously (3.1 g) at the commencement of operation to all patients, and this was repeated after 2 hours in those patients randomized to receive a second dose.  The wound infection rate was 11 percent in the 143 patients completing follow-up and receiving a single dose, and 13 percent in the 128 patients receiving two doses of Timentin (P greater than 0.05).  The rates of postoperative septicemia 3 vs.  4 percent and intra-abdominal abscess 5 vs.  8 percent were similar.  Multivariate analysis of the factors likely to affect postoperative would infection rate demonstrated an association with the type of hospital, public or private, wound infection rate 16 and 6 percent, respectively (P less than 0.01), and the surgeon group defined by the number of patients contributed greater than 25 or less than 25, wound infection rate 6 and 18 percent, respectively (P less than 0.05).  We concluded that a single dose of intravenous Timentin was as effective as two doses for prophylaxis against surgical infection and that the surgeon group and the hospital in which the operation took place were statistically significant predictors of postoperative wound infection.
Management of asymptomatic, term gestation neonates born to mothers treated with intrapartum antibiotics.  Intrapartum antibiotics are frequently administered to parturient women for suspected chorioamnionitis to treat infection in the mother and to prevent or treat infection in the baby.  We sent a questionnaire to the 150 United States fellowship program directors in neonatology and pediatric infectious disease, focusing on recommendations for evaluation and therapy of apparently healthy, pretreated, term gestation infants.  Eighty-three (55%) of the completed responses were analyzed.  Sixteen (19%) respondents do no initial laboratory evaluation but simply observe the baby, 65 (78%) take a complete blood count as well as a platelet count, 59 (71%) obtain blood cultures, 41 (49%) check urine antigen for Group B Streptococcus (GBS) and 23 (28%) perform a lumbar puncture.  Only 39% of respondents would begin antibiotic therapy for all pretreated infants.  If the evaluation were unremarkable 65 directors would treat for less than or equal to 3 days.  If only the urine GBS antigen were positive 47 would treat for greater than or equal to 7 days, while if an elevated immature neutrophil:total neutrophil ratio were the sole abnormality 19 would treat for greater than or equal to 7 days.  Forty-four respondents thought that a combination of an elevated immature neutrophil:total neutrophil ratio and a positive urine GBS antigen should always be considered indicative of bacteremia.  Given a different scenario, that of a mother treated with intrapartum antibiotics because of a positive cervical culture for GBS and a risk factor (e.g.  temperature greater than or equal to 38 degrees C), 58 respondents would begin antibiotics.  There is no consensus regarding management of pretreated, healthy appearing, term gestation neonates.
Risk factors for multiorgan failure: a case-control study.  The aim of this study was to identify factors associated with Multiple Organ Failure (MOF), and assess possible interactions between the risk factors identified as such.  We studied 40 MOF cases and 120 controls, out of all the surgery and trauma patients who needed intensive care at our institution in a 24-month period.  The univariate analyses showed that age, hypovolemic shock, massive volume administration (MVA), sepsis, and time of evolution before arriving to the hospital (TE) were significantly associated with MOF.  Logistic regression analysis showed that neither age nor MVA were independently associated with MOF after adjusting for all of the other variables.  Interactions seemed to be present between age, sepsis, and shock.  We conclude that in our surgery and trauma ICU adult patient population, hypovolemic shock, sepsis, and TE are independent risk factors for MOF.  The importance of the association between shock and sepsis is discussed, as well as the possible relevance of TE as a risk factor.
Tick-borne borreliosis in west Africa.  Reported cases of tick-borne relapsing fever due to the spirochaete Borrelia crocidurae are rare in West Africa, and few epidemiological data are available.  To see how common relapsing fever is in Senegal thick blood smears from cases of fever of unknown origin and from randomly selected clinic outpatients from a rural dispensary were examined for Borrelia.  The prevalence of Borrelia infections in small mammals was also assessed.  Borrelia was seen in smears of 12 (0.9%) of 1340 children.  All children who tested positive had complained of acute fever.  Prevalence was 0% (0/496), 0.5% (2/417), 1.6% (5/308), and 4.2% (5/119) at ages 0-1, 2-4, 5-9, and 10-14, respectively.  26 other instances of borreliosis were seen in patients from different regions of Senegal.  Blood samples from 7 of these patients were inoculated intraperitoneally into white mice; serious infection developed in all mice.  Borrelia was seen in thick smears from 65 of 461 wild rodents or insectivores.  Six rodents species were infected.  From a sample of 93 rodents, 33.3% were infected, as judged by intraperitoneal inoculation of white mice, compared with 14.1% by direct smear examination.  The findings suggest that borreliosis has a wide distribution and a high incidence in Senegal.  This disease may be a major cause of morbidity in rural areas throughout much of West Africa.
HIV-1 and pregnant women: associated factors, prevalence, estimate of incidence and role in fetal wastage in central Africa.  The major goals of this study were to measure the current prevalence and estimate the annual incidence of HIV-1 infection in young pregnant women from urban Malawi, to identify factors that were associated with HIV-1 infection, and to examine adverse pregnancy outcomes.  Four hundred and sixty-one consecutive pregnant women were studied when they presented for prenatal care.  The overall seroprevalence for HIV-1 infection in these urban populations was 17.6% (81 out of 461) during early 1989.  Based on previous seroprevalence in similar unselected pregnant women, the estimated annual incidence of HIV-1 seroconversion in urban pregnant women ranged from 3 to 4% per annum between 1985 and 1987 and from 7 to 13% between 1987 and 1989.  HIV-1 infection was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology.  Reported history of sexually transmitted disease was also correlated with HIV-1 infection but was not statistically significant.  Other variables, such as history of transfusion, history of tuberculosis, parity or occupation were not associated with HIV-1 infection.  History of spontaneous abortion was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology, HIV-1 infection and history of sexually transmitted disease.  In logistic regression analysis, HIV-1 infection remained the only significant variable that was correlated with spontaneous abortion.  This study suggests that HIV-1 infection may play a role in fetal wastage.
A pilot study of the prevalence of herpes genitalis among selected groups of patients seeking care in a family practice center.  Herpes genitalis is typically studied in patient panels identified at specialized sexually transmitted disease clinics or with information obtained from herpes self-help groups.  This article reports the results of a descriptive pilot study of the prevalence of herpes genitalis in family practice.  The feasibility of obtaining psychosexual information on sexually transmitted diseases from more than 600 patients from five family practice practices was assessed.  These initial data show that in the family practices participating in this study: 1) genital herpes is a low prevalence disease; 2) psychosocial adjustment to the disease among infected persons is usually reported as good, apart from sexual effects; and 3) close to 30% of the study population reported having prior sexually transmitted diseases.  Problems involved in generalizing the results of this research and the limitations of conducting collaborative clinical research in family practice settings are reviewed.
Pathophysiology, monitoring, and management of the ventilator-dependent patient: considerations for drug therapy, emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis.  Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), or noncardiac pulmonary edema, is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure.  The goals of treatment for patients with ARDS are to provide supportive therapy, to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology, and to prevent subsequent complications.  Supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen, positive end-expiratory pressure, and, often, mechanical ventilation.  The reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ARDS.  Complications from ARDS include stress ulcers, which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced.  Antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis, but histamine H2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care.  Because all the marketed H2-receptor antagonists are efficacious, choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions.  No definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric pH to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia.
Audit of results of operations for infantile pyloric stenosis in a district general hospital   Because of the proposal that infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis should only be treated by surgeons with an interest in paediatric surgery, we carried out a retrospective study to audit our experience in a district general hospital.  Forty six infants over a five year period underwent pyloromyotomy.  There were no deaths, and 36 infants (78%) made uneventful recoveries.  Perforation of the duodenal mucosa occurred during the operation in 11 patients, and eight complications developed in six of these infants.  There were seven wound infections, and two patients had vomiting that lasted four days or longer after their operations.  There were no long term feeding problems.  The results of this study show that such patients can be successfully treated in district general hospitals, and three areas merit special attention: meticulous surgical technique, the use of prophylactic antibiotics, and early graduated feeding.
Septic arthritis due to group C streptococcus: report and review of the literature.  A case of polyarticular septic arthritis due to Lancefield group C streptococcus is described and the clinical details of 9 reported cases of septic arthritis due to group C streptococcus reviewed.  Several features of the presentation and course of these patients, including polyarticular involvement (4/10), bacteremia (5/10), clinically important dysfunction in other systems (4/10 patients: cardiac, 3; CNS, 2; pneumonia, 1; gastrointestinal, 1), fatal outcome (3/10 patients, 2 during the course of active infection) and poor functional outcome in affected joints (4/7 surviving patients), serve to place group C streptococcus septic arthritis as a syndrome distinct from that usually expected with streptococcal septic arthritis.  Specific features of the bacteriology of group C streptococcus are reviewed (including confusion with group A streptococcus when analyzed using nonserologic methods, occasional zoonotic source, and frequency of tolerance to penicillin) in order to emphasize the importance of both the specific identification of this particular streptococcal strain and the initiation of aggressive antibiotic therapy when group C streptococcus is identified as the causative agent in a case of septic arthritis.
Mediastinitis following coronary artery bypass surgery: a 3-year review.  Twenty cases of mediastinitis after coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1985-1987 were reviewed to determine risk factors.  Two distinct clusters with a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) strain occurred in 1986.  One resident was exposed to six cases but to only 5 of 24 controls (P less than .008).  Cultures of his nares in January and November 1986 revealed the same MRSA strain as that of the cases.  An attempt to eradicate the resident's nasal carriage of MRSA in January 1986 failed; eradication of his carrier state was achieved only after treatment with mupirocin.  In a case-control study examining patients exposed to the resident, a prolonged duration of surgery (P less than .05) and a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl (P less than .009) were associated with mediastinitis with this MRSA.  For the other 14 mediastinitis patients, who were not exposed to the resident, a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl was also a risk factor (8/14 cases vs.  8/43 controls, P less than .009).  Thus, this study suggests that it is important to follow MRSA disseminators and to recognize that preoperative serum albumin levels are a risk factor for mediastinitis.
Helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia: a prospective controlled study.  Although some authors believe that Helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis, it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event.  This study documents the prevalence of H.  pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age-, race-, and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects.  All subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus.  A sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies (immunoglobulin A and immunoglobulin G) to H.  pylori.  The prevalence of H.  pylori (by biopsy) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls (11% vs.  71%, P less than 0.0001).  All patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology (inflammation and/or atrophy).  In addition, 50% of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum.  All controls with H.  pylori had gastritis, 50% having active chronic gastritis.  Atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia (75% vs.  7%, P less than 0.0001).  Serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia: all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results, whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies.  In conclusion, patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with H.  pylori, and H.  pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process.
Pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis.  Advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis have occurred primarily through the use of experimental animal models.  These models have proven to be particularly valuable in experimental bacterial meningitis, focusing on the bacterial virulence factors responsible for the initiation of infections, CNS invasion, and induction of SAS inflammation.  Recent studies have examined the formation of host inflammatory cytokines in response to these virulence factors.  These cytokines may be responsible for many of the pathophysiologic consequences of bacterial meningitis (eg.  increased BBB permeability, cerebral edema, and increased intracranial pressure).  Meningitis due to C.  neoformans occurs most commonly in patients with defects in cell-mediated immunity (eg, AIDS), and the depletion of T helper cells in AIDS patients may allow unrestricted cryptococcal growth.  Viral meningitis is an illness of low prevalence when compared with the overall occurrence of viral infections at other sites.  CNS infection usually occurs by means of traversal across barriers that normally exclude viral invasion of the CNS, primarily through hematogenous dissemination from initial sites of infection.  These advances in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of bacterial, fungal, and viral meningitis may lead to the development of innovative treatment strategies for these disorders.
Reactions of rat odontogenic tissues to heat.  Twenty-four Wistar rats were anesthetized and 200 degrees C heat was applied for 4 minutes to each mandibular left first molar.  Eight of these rats were then killed at 2, 8, and 14 weeks.  The subject and control teeth were radiographed and compared.  They were then prepared for histologic evaluation and scored for levels of inflammation in both the pulpal and periradicular tissues.  Furcal, interproximal, and apical radiographic changes were found at all three time intervals.  These changes involved progressively larger percentages of teeth at 8 and 14 weeks.  Histologically, complete necrosis and/or abscess formation were found in the coronal portions of all experimental pulps.  With time, inflammatory changes increased in intensity and progressed through the radicular pulps, resulting in necrosis or calcific changes and, finally, inflammatory changes in the periradicular areas.  The pathosis created by the application of heat was devoid of microorganisms as evaluated by the Brown and Brenn stain.
Fatal Capnocytophaga canimorsus septicemia in a previously healthy woman.  A previously healthy 47-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with septic shock five days after a small dog bite on the dorsum of her hand.  Capnocytophaga canimorsus was isolated from blood cultures.  Despite intensive therapy, multiple organ failure developed, and the patient died 27 days after admission.  Characteristics of Capnocytophaga (formerly CDC group Dysgonic Fermenter-2) infection are briefly discussed.  This unusual outcome in a previously healthy patient and the need for careful management of dog bite wounds, even if initially very small, is emphasized.
HIV infection: clinical features and treatment of thirty-three homosexual men with Kaposi's sarcoma.  The clinical findings of patients with oral Kaposi's sarcoma are reviewed.  These oral findings commonly included candidiasis, hairy leukoplakia, gingivitis associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), periodontitis, and other symptoms, including xerostomia.  The other common symptoms of HIV disease that may be of importance in leading to a diagnosis are reviewed in this patient group.  Treatment by local radiotherapy or by intralesional vinblastine of these oral Kaposi's sarcomas resulted in successful palliation, with more than 50% regression of the lesions in 80% of the patients treated.
A rapid method for detection of group B streptococcal colonization: testing at the bedside.  Vertical transmission of group B streptococci, the most frequent cause of early neonatal sepsis, can be interrupted by intrapartum antibiotics.  However, rapid methods for detecting colonized women must be developed to limit the administration of antibiotics to those who are at risk of delivering an infected infant.  The accuracy of a colorimetric test using starch serum medium on vaginal and rectal specimens from women with preterm labor or prolonged rupture of membranes was evaluated.  The test was interpreted by labor and delivery room nurses without special microbiologic training.  Starch serum medium results were compared with those obtained from routine cultures.  Thirteen of 29 positive vaginal cultures (45%) and eight of 18 positive rectal swabs (44%) were identified by nurses using the rapid method.  This was significantly different (P less than .001) from sensitivities of 93 and 95%, respectively, for the same vaginal and rectal specimens interpreted by a bacteriology technologist.  The specificity for the test from both sites was 95% for the nurses.  The sensitivity was 53 and 36% for vaginal and rectal swabs, respectively, for a subgroup of mothers whose infants were assessed as clinically septic.  The low sensitivity of starch serum medium as interpreted by nurses in the labor suite is inadequate to allow the test to replace cultures in identifying women colonized with group B streptococci.  Efforts to increase the sensitivity should be directed toward improving nursing staff interpretation rather than improving the medium itself.
Mechanisms of hemolysis and anemia associated with acute antepartum pyelonephritis.  Anemia develops in about a fourth of women whose pregnancy is complicated by pyelonephritis, although its exact mechanism has not been defined clearly.  In this study of 18 women with antepartum pyelonephritis, although only a third had anemia (hematocrit less than 30 vol/dl), there was evidence for hemolysis in all 18.  Specifically there was a mean decrease in hematocrit of 5 vol/dl from admission to discharge.  With scanning electron microscopy, we compared erythrocyte morphologic aberrations that were found in women with renal infection with those of normally pregnant women, and the former had significantly increased proportions of echinocytes in particular, but schistocytes and spherocytes were increased also (total 10.3% vs 1.4%, p less than 0.0001).  These changes, especially echinocytosis, have been induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide, and they are known to lead to premature red blood cell destruction in vivo.  We conclude that hemolysis with subsequent anemia in pregnant women with pyelonephritis is caused by lipopolysaccharide-induced red blood cell membrane damage.
Serum erythropoietin levels in the anaemia of chronic disorders.  Serum erythropoietin (S-EPO) levels were measured in 50 patients with anaemia of chronic disorders (ACD), classified into three groups according to their aetiology: inflammatory (n = 20), infectious (n = 15) and neoplastic (n = 15).  The inflammatory group showed a higher mean S-EPO level (mean value +/- SEM, 69 +/- 11 mU ml-1) than the neoplastic (43 +/- 5 mU ml-1; P less than 0.05) and infectious groups (27 +/- 4 mU ml-1; P less than 0.01).  The S-EPO level in the inflammatory group also differed from that of 32 healthy controls (36 +/- 3 mU ml-1; P less than 0.05).  Fourteen patients with added iron deficiency (12 subjects from the inflammatory group) showed the highest S-EPO concentration (72 +/- 17 mU ml-1).  Conversely, S-EPO levels were lower in febrile subjects (12 patients with infection and five with malignancy) than in non-febrile patients (28 +/- 4 mU ml-1 vs.  55 +/- 7 mU ml-1; P less than 0.01).  In the infectious group, the logarithm of S-EPO correlated directly with the haemoglobin and haematocrit values.  We conclude that differences in S-EPO concentration in ACD may be further related to the patient's iron stores and temperature.  A decrease in EPO production may contribute to the pathogenesis of ACD secondary to infection.
Reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions.  We evaluated prospectively a technique of delayed reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions.  Forty-one consecutive postoperative obstetric and gynecologic patients with abdominal incisions that had opened because of infection, hematoma, or seroma and had intact fascia participated in the study.  All wounds were first managed identically, with surgical drainage and debridement, for a minimum of 4 days.  The patients then were randomized to either wound reclosure by a standardized en bloc technique (35) or healing by second intention (six).  Reclosure was successful in 30 of 35 cases (85.7%).  The mean time to complete healing was 15.8 days in successful cases, 67.2 days in failed cases, and 23.2 days for all patients who were reclosed.  Failure to heal after reclosure was due to subcutaneous infection in two patients and seroma in three; these women were significantly heavier than those in whom reclosure was successful.  There were no other major complications of wound reclosure.  Patients randomized to healing by second intention required a mean of 71.8 days of wound care.  The time to complete healing in the wound-reclosure group was significantly shorter compared with the group that healed by second intention (P = .002, log rank test).  We conclude that en bloc reclosure of disrupted surgical incisions, compared with nonsurgical treatment, significantly decreases the time required for wound healing and has minimal morbidity.
Culture-positive allergic fungal sinusitis.  Allergic Aspergillus sinusitis is a well-defined clinical and histologic entity, although surprisingly few reported cases have yielded any fungal growth on culture.  Taking advantage of recent changes in the identification and classification of certain groups of fungi, we were able to identify a specific fungal organism in 19 of 22 consecutive patients with a histologic diagnosis of allergic fungal sinusitis over the past 2 1/2 years.  Aspergillus was found in only one patient, while an organism in the family of dematiaceous fungi was found in 18 patients.  Of these patients, the genus Bipolaris was the most commonly represented, while Exserohilum, Curvularia, and Alternaria species were seen with less frequency.  Thus, it appears that Aspergillus may not be the most common etiologic agent in allergic "Aspergillus" sinusitis.  Allergic fungal sinusitis is not unusual and its incidence may be increasing.  On initial clinical evaluation it may be easily mistaken for malignancy or invasive fungal disease with the potential for overly aggressive treatment.  Preoperative suspicion of allergic fungal sinusitis based on clinical and roentgenographic findings along with careful communication with the mycology laboratory about the possibility of dematiaceous fungal growth are necessary for proper diagnosis.
Epidemiologic, clinical, and laboratory findings of human ehrlichiosis in the United States, 1988.  In 1988, the Centers for Disease Control and the Oklahoma State Department of Health identified 40 patients who had a fourfold or greater change in antibody titer in response to Ehrlichia canis.  The median age of these patients was 42 years, 83% were male, 76% became ill between May and July, and 92% reported recent exposures to ticks.  Patients resided in or were exposed to ticks in 14 states, including five where ehrlichiosis had not been reported before 1988.  Thirty-four patients (85%) were hospitalized, and many had serious complications, including acute respiratory failure (seven patients), encephalopathy (six patients), and acute renal failure (four patients).  Pulmonary infiltrates were demonstrated in 14 patients, cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis was seen in 10 patients, and elevated levels of serum creatinine were demonstrated in eight patients.  Two patients, both of whom had preexisting medical problems, died.  Nonhospitalized patients received tetracycline therapy earlier in the course of their illness than hospitalized patients.  There was no significant difference in the interval from initiation of antibiotic therapy to the first day of defervescence between patients treated with tetracyclines and those treated with chloramphenicol.
Empiric antibiotic selection by physicians: evaluation of reasoning strategies.  The objectives of the study were to evaluate the appropriateness of empiric antibiotic selection by housestaff treating medical patients with bacteremia.  The design was a prospective, observational study at a university-affiliated hospital.  Seventy-eight patients with bacteremia were evaluated.  A clinical grade of acceptable or not acceptable was assigned to each antibiotic prescription by a consensus panel.  The consensus panel found that 34.6% of antibiotic prescriptions were unacceptable (clinical grade).  At least one flaw in the chain of reasoning was found in 56.4% of the 78 cases evaluated.  Assessment of the clinical setting was correct in 94.9% of the cases; the portal of entry was identified in 91%; adequate knowledge of the bacterial flora at the suspected site of infection was found in 69%; the diagnostic workup was appropriate in 81%, and the correct antibiotic susceptibility patterns were given in 72%.  A correct chain of reasoning was more likely to result in an acceptable clinical grade than flawed reasoning (p less than 0.005).  However, an appropriate antibiotic selection was made by some physicians despite flawed reasoning, and inappropriate antibiotic selection occurred in a few cases despite fautless reasoning.  In 3.8% of cases, unexpected organisms appeared in blood culture.  Prescription of broad spectrum antibiotics may then be learned response.  If so, educational efforts that emphasize narrow, rather than broad spectrum prescribing may be inadequate to change physician prescribing habits.
Angiographic arterial embolization and computed tomography-directed drainage for the management of hemorrhage and infection with abdominal pregnancy.  Hemorrhage during or after surgery, pelvic abscess, bowel obstruction, and prolonged febrile morbidity can complicate the puerperal course of the gravida after removal of an extrauterine fetus with nondisturbance of the extrauterine placenta.  In this report we describe the successful angiographic arterial gelfoam embolization of the placental vascular bed to control heavy postoperative hemorrhage in a mother suffering adult respiratory distress syndrome after removal of the fetal portion of her abdominal pregnancy.  Six weeks later, computed tomography (CT)-directed drainage by catheter of a placental abscess was performed.  Selective angiographic transcatheter embolization with gelfoam is a useful tool for the control of hemorrhage in the gravida who is an unfavorable operative candidate or who may present technical hemostasis problems peculiar to the placenta with abdominal pregnancy.  Later use of CT-directed catheter drainage of the infected residual placental mass provided a nonoperative means of treatment.
Oral findings in HIV-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine: the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of HIV disease   The occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients, including 35 patients with AIDS, who had been admitted to a Department of Internal Medicine.  Lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients (74 per cent).  Oral candidiasis (50 per cent), hairy leukoplakia (14 per cent), periodontal disease (13 per cent), and oral Kaposi's sarcoma (4 per cent) were the most common lesions.  Oral mucosal lesions suggestive of HIV infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown HIV status in whom Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected.  Close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of HIV-infected patients and may influence the CDC classification of this disease.
Percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty following treated endocarditis in a patient with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis.  A 36-year-old woman with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis developed the rare complication of endocarditis of the valve.  After successful sterilization of the valve, the patient underwent percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty at a later date.  The procedure successfully reduced the peak pulmonary valve gradient from 94 to 45 mm Hg.  Percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty is the procedure of choice for treatment of congenital pulmonary valvular stenosis, even in the unusual patient who has healed endocarditis of the pulmonary valve.
Nosocomial Pseudomonas pickettii bacteremias traced to narcotic tampering. A case for selective drug screening of health care personnel   Three patients in a university hospital developed nosocomial infusion-related Pseudomonas pickettii bacteremia.  Investigation identified six additional patients who had received intravenous fluid contaminated by P pickettii but did not become ill.  All nine patients had had surgery, and each of these patients but only nine of 19 operated-on control patients had received intravenous fentanyl citrate in the operating room; the mean dose given to the nine case patients was far greater than that given to control patients.  Fentanyl in 20 (40%) of 50 predrawn 30-mL syringes was shown to be contaminated by P pickettii.  Contamination was caused by theft of fentanyl from predrawn synringes and replacement by distilled water contaminated by P pickettii.  Narcotic theft by health care personnel may cause patients to suffer pain needlessly and can also result in dire unanticipated consequences, such as nosocomial bacteremia.  Whereas drug testing in the workplace is highly controversial, we believe that testing of health care personnel is indicated when drug abuse or theft is suspected.
Urinary phenolic glycolipid 1 in the diagnosis and management of leprosy.  A simplified assay to measure the phenolic glycolipid 1 (PGL-1) of Mycobacterium leprae in the urine was applied to the diagnosis of leprosy and the monitoring of antileprosy chemotherapy.  One hundred seventy-nine previously untreated patients and 25 normal controls were tested.  The specificity of the assay was 100%.  There were no false-positive results.  The sensitivity of the assay varied with the type of leprosy from 92% for lepromatous leprosy to 56% for borderline lepromatous and 18% for borderline tuberculoid patients.  After the onset of chemotherapy in lepromatous leprosy patients, there was often a transient increase of urinary PGL-1, followed by a steady decline.  Within 3 months of multiple drug therapy, urinary PGL-1 levels were reduced by 90%-99% and were often undetectable.  This assay appears to have considerable potential for monitoring chemotherapy and detecting treatment failure and relapse in patients with Hansen's disease.
Special problems of urinary tract infection in the elderly.  Bacteriuria is much more common among elderly than among younger populations, and is most often asymptomatic.  Asymptomatic bacteriuria in the elderly is a benign condition in the vast majority of cases and does not require therapy.  When symptomatic lower UTI occurs, short-course (3-day) therapy with any of several agents is indicated, and is usually effective.  Women with frequently recurrent symptomatic UTI may benefit from estrogen therapy.  Fourteen days of therapy is indicated in patients with upper UTI.  The typical signs and symptoms of pyelonephritis may be altered or absent in elderly patients.
Successful prophylaxis for fungal peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis: six years' experience [published erratum appears in Am J Kidney Dis 1991 Jun;17(6):726]  Fungal peritonitis as a serious complication of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) is often associated with severe morbidity, CAPD "drop-out" and, occasionally, death.  Most episodes of fungal peritonitis occur during or after a period of antibiotic treatment of various bacterial infections, usually bacterial peritonitis.  From April 1979 to December 1982 (period I), 10 episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 415 patient-months, ie, 10.5% of all peritonitis episodes recorded in our CAPD program.  After the introduction of oral prophylaxis with 3 x 500,000 IU [corrected] nystatin during every course of antibiotic treatment, only four episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 2,102 patient-months, ie, 3.1% of all peritonitis episodes from January 1983 to March 1989 (period II).  This difference between the first and second periods is significant (P less than 0.05).  Moreover, none of the four patients who contracted fungal peritonitis in the second period received nystatin prophylaxis.  Thus, the simple measure of oral prophylaxis using this nonabsorbable antifungal agent in every case of an antibiotic treatment largely eliminates the risk of fungal peritonitis in patients on CAPD.
Why aging leads to increased susceptibility to infection.  The elderly are predisposed to various infections through a multitude of factors.  Although intrinsic, unalterable defects occur in the aging immune system and nonspecific host defenses, there are factors that physician and patient can concentrate on to reduce the risk of infection.  For example, meticulous attention to skin care can reduce the risk of soft tissue infection.  Improvement in oral hygiene and relief of xerostomia might promote recolonization with normal oral flora.  Correction of urinary tract obstruction where possible, relying on the use of indwelling urinary catheters only when necessary, can significantly reduce the risk of UTIs.  Medications that impair cognitive function should be prescribed judiciously, since they can promote aspiration with subsequent pneumonia, xerostomia, and urinary retention.  Correction of protein malnutrition may improve cell-mediated immunity and skin integrity, thereby reducing the risk of infection.  The signs and symptoms of infection in the aged may be subtle.  Therefore, the primary care physician should approach this susceptible population with a heightened clinical suspicion, thus expediting possibly life-saving early diagnosis and treatment.
Cefazolin for hysterectomy prophylaxis.  Efficacy data for single-dose cefazolin prophylaxis at hysterectomy are meager, and there are none evaluating the impact of route of administration on efficacy.  For these reasons, 772 women undergoing elective abdominal or vaginal hysterectomy for benign diseases were given 1 g cefazolin either intramuscularly or intravenously in a randomized clinical trial.  Preoperative diagnoses and clinical, surgical, and outcome variables were similar by route of administration for each surgical approach.  Risk factors for infection after abdominal hysterectomy included younger age, lower postoperative hemoglobin concentration, and pelvic hematoma; women who developed infection after vaginal hysterectomy were heavier than those who remained uninfected and were more likely to have a pelvic hematoma.  The overall incidence of major operative site infection requiring parenteral antimicrobial therapy in evaluable women was 7.2%: 7.6% for 539 women undergoing abdominal hysterectomy and 6.3% for 207 women undergoing vaginal hysterectomy.  Postoperative infection was unrelated to route of cefazolin administration.
A rare cause of colitis--Brucella melitensis. Report of a case.  Documentation of gastrointestinal lesions in Brucella infections is sparse.  A case of Brucella melitensis type 3 infection accompanied by erosive lesions of the colon, observed by endoscopy and histopathologic examination, is reported.  Such gastrointestinal lesions have not been described since 1934.  Before 1934 only postmortem observations are recorded.
Severity of cystic fibrosis in patients homozygous and heterozygous for delta F508 mutation.  To assess the relation between genotype and severity of disease in cystic fibrosis (CF) the frequencies and extent of several features of its phenotypic expression were investigated in the 235 patients who attend the Danish CF Centre.  14 patients who attend irregularly and 3 who do not carry the delta F508 mutation at all were excluded.  The case-reports of the remaining 218 patients (aged 4 months to 41 years) were carefully evaluated, and they were all analysed for the delta F508 mutation.  172 (79%) were homozygous for delta F508 and 46 (20%) were heterozygous.  The mutation therefore occurs on 89% of the chromosomes analysed.  There were no significant differences between the homozygous and heterozygous groups in the proportions with meconium ileus at birth, liver involvement, or chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection.  However, significantly more of the homozygous patients had onset of symptoms before the age of 6 months (p less than 0.025); they were significantly younger at diagnosis (p = 0.013) and centre referral (p = 0.006); they required greater pancreatic enzyme substitution (p = 0.0002) and had poorer lung function; and the calculated yearly incidence of chronic Ps aeruginosa infection and yearly mortality rates were greater than in heterozygous patients (p = 0.0001).
Antibody responses to four Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccines.  Serum antibody responses to four Haemophilus influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccines (PRP-D, HbOC, C7p, and PRP-T) were studied and compared in 175 infants, 85 adults and 140 2-year-old children.  Antibodies to the H influenzae type b polysaccharide vaccines were determined with a Farr-type radioimmunoassay.  The infants received two doses of vaccine at the ages of 4 and 6 months.  After the first dose of vaccine, the geometric mean antibody concentration measured at the age of 6 months was 0.09 to 0.10 mg/L, only marginally higher than that measured before immunization in all infants who had received PRP-D, HbOC, or C7p but increased to 0.82 mg/L in those who had received PRP-T.  One month after the second dose, the geometric mean antibody concentration was increased in all vaccine groups.  No significant differences were noted between recipients of HbOC, C7p, or PRP-T (geometric mean antibody concentrations, 4.32, 3.10, and 6.10 mg/L, respectively), whereas the PRP-D recipients had a significantly lower geometric mean antibody concentration (0.63 mg/L).  In contrast, PRP-D, HbOC, C7p, and PRP-T were all highly immunogenic in adults, with no differences noted among them.  The 2-year-old children also responded to one dose of these vaccines with a high antibody concentration.
Cerebellar syndrome caused by isoniazid.  Treatment of tuberculosis in a hemodialysis patient with isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide resulted in the development of acute cerebellar dysfunction.  This resolved rapidly following the discontinuation of isoniazid and pyrazinamide, reinstitution of isoniazid at a lower dose, and addition of pyridoxine.  We discuss why we believe this syndrome was caused by isoniazid.  Patients with renal failure who undergo antituberculous therapy with isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine to reduce the likelihood of isoniazid-related neurotoxicity.
Enhancement of antibiotic concentrations in gastric mucosa by H2-receptor antagonist. Implications for treatment of Helicobacter pylori infections.  We measured the effects of cimetidine on antibiotic concentrations in the luminal portion of gastric mucosa.  Guinea pigs were premedicated with cimetidine 4 mg/kg intramuscularly.  Clindamycin, an antibiotic previously characterized under physiologic pH conditions, was administered intramuscularly and levels measured in serum and tissue using a high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) technique.  The luminal mucosa concentration of clindamycin at 1 hr (pH 5.9) was fivefold greater compared to the concentrations seen under physiologic (pH 2.0) conditions (81.5 micrograms/g vs 15.9 micrograms/g; P less than 0.05) and 10-fold greater at 2 hr (82.7 micrograms/g vs 8.09 micrograms/g; P less than 0.05).  There was no difference in peak serum levels between the groups.  The finding that an antibiotic with characteristics of a base is thus affected by a nonconservative acid inhibitor such as cimetidine supports the presence of an acidic storage pool as proposed by other investigators.  H2-receptor antagonists may be useful therapeutic adjuncts in H.  pylori infections by virtue of increasing gastric concentrations of antibiotics that behave as weak bases.
Vaginitis. Systematically solving a bothersome problem.  Vaginitis is a common cause of patient visits to primary care physicians.  Causes include allergic and irritative factors and infectious agents.  Diagnosis is readily made with use of simple office procedures such as wet smears, stains, and cultures.  Treatment with appropriate antibiotics or vaginal preparations is usually effective.
Changes in cardiac function during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn infant.  The effects of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) on cardiac function and its determinants (preload, afterload, contractility, and heart rate) are largely unknown, although some evidence exists that function may decrease.  To determine whether cardiac function decreases and what changes in the determinants take place during and after ECMO, we observed 26 newborn infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension.  Serial echocardiograms were performed before ECMO, during maximum cardiopulmonary bypass, and after ECMO.  Cardiac function was assessed by using standard echographic ejection phase indices (shortening fraction and cardiac output).  Heart rate, preload (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension and area), afterload (left ventricular end-systolic wall stress), and contractility (relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress) were also measured.  Ejection phase indices significantly decreased during ECMO (shortening fraction 33% to 25%, cardiac output 205 to 113 ml/kg/min; p less than 0.05) and returned to normal after ECMO (shortening fraction 26% to 34%, cardiac output 107 to 240 ml/kg/per minute; p less than 0.05).  Heart rate also significantly decreased during ECMO (158 to 118 beats/min; p less than 0.05).  Preload significantly increased after ECMO (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension 1.4 to 1.6 cm, left ventricular end-diastolic area 1.9 to 2.2 cm2; p less than 0.05).  There were no significant changes in contractility and afterload during any study period.  We conclude that, although left ventricular ejection phase indices and heart rate decreased during ECMO, these changes were transient and resolved when bypass was terminated.  Contractility and afterload did not appear affected by bypass.
Acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in Dhaka, Bangladesh.  This study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) and diarrhea in Dhaka, Bangladesh, and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens.  The most common manifestations of ALRI were pneumonia (374 cases), bronchiolitis (12 cases), and tracheobronchitis (11 cases).  The majority (77%) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age, and 88% of the children were malnourished.  A respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30% of the patients, and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34%.  The overall case-fatality rate in children with ALRI and diarrhea was 8%.  The case-fatality rate was 14% in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea, 3% in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea, and 14% in malnourished children with shigellosis and ALRI.  The most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, influenza viruses, and Haemophilus influenzae type b.
Ecology, life cycle, and infectious propagule of Cryptococcus neoformans   Cryptococcus neoformans is a biotrophic smut-like fungus, and the epidemiology of cryptococcosis can mainly be explained by exposure to an infective aerosolised inoculum.  For C neoformans var gattii it is postulated that the principal infectious propagule is the basidiospore and that exposure to Eucalyptus camaldulensis, the host tree, is required to initiate infection in man and animals.  C neoformans var gattii may have been exported from Australia by infected seeds of E camaldulensis containing dormant dikaryotic mycelium of the fungus.  For C neoformans var neoformans both the basidiospore and desiccated encapsulated yeast cells are postulated to act as infectious propagules, the basidiospores showing a seasonal distribution in association with an as yet unidentified host plant, and the encapsulated yeast cells dispersed from accumulations of dried bird (mainly pigeon) droppings which act as a year-round vector.
Syphilis. A new visit from an old enemy.  Syphilis has a number of stages, including a latent one, and may be overlooked or misdiagnosed if the possibility is not kept in mind.  Adequate treatment during the primary stage results in a very high cure rate.  The latent stage may last for years, during which time a woman may still give birth to an infected child.  Symptomatic neurosyphilis occurs more often in men than women.  Penicillin G is preferred to treat all stages of the disease; other antibiotics can be used for patients sensitive to penicillin.
The office laboratory.  Few areas of medicine are experiencing such tremendous growth as the office-based laboratory.  Recent advances in technology and changes in reimbursement practices have greatly expanded the potential of this segment of patient care.  In the 1990s the physician has opportunity to introduce many testing procedures to the office laboratory that were not available 20 years ago.  Requirements in the areas of quality assurance and quality control are constantly changing.  These regulations vary from state to state and each laboratory should know what is required by their respective certifying agency.  In today's market, the physician must choose between the referral laboratory or the resources in the office and consider which option provides the best in care and cost to the patient.
Children born to women with HIV-1 infection: natural history and risk of transmission. European Collaborative Study.  600 children born to HIV-infected mothers by June 15, 1990, in ten European centres were followed to study the natural history of HIV infection and the vertical transmission rate.  They were seen at birth, every 3 months up to 18 months of age, and every 6 months thereafter.  At last follow-up, 64 children were judged to be HIV infected and 343 had lost antibody and were presumed uninfected.  The initial clinical feature in infected children was usually a combination of persistent lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and hepatomegaly, though 30% of children presented with AIDS, or with oral candidosis followed rapidly by AIDS.  An estimated 83% of infected children show laboratory or clinical features of HIV infection by 6 months of age.  By 12 months, 26% have AIDS and 17% die of HIV-related disease.  Subsequently, the disease progresses more slowly and most children remain stable or even improve during the second year.  The vertical transmission rate, based on results in 372 children born at least 18 months before the analysis, was 12.9% (95% Cl 9.5-16.3%).  Virus has been repeatedly isolated in an additional small proportion of children (2.5%, 95% Cl 0.7-6.3%) who lost maternal antibody and have remained clinically and immunologically normal.  Without a definitive virological diagnosis, the monitoring of immunoglobulins, CD4/CD8 ratio, and clinical signs could identify HIV infection in 48% of infected children by 6 months, with a specificity of more than 99%.
Treatment of gram-negative bacteremia and septic shock with HA-1A human monoclonal antibody against endotoxin. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The HA-1A Sepsis Study Group   BACKGROUND.  HA-1A is a human monoclonal IgM antibody that binds specifically to the lipid A domain of endotoxin and prevents death in laboratory animals with gram-negative bacteremia and endotoxemia.  METHODS.  To evaluate the efficacy and safety of HA-1A, we conducted a randomized, double-blind trial in patients with sepsis and a presumed diagnosis of gram-negative infection.  The patients received either a single 100-mg intravenous dose of HA-1A (in 3.5 g of albumin) or placebo (3.5 g of albumin).  Other interventions, including the administration of antibiotics and fluids, were not affected by the study protocol.  RESULTS.  Of 543 patients with sepsis who were treated, 200 (37 percent) had gram-negative bacteremia as proved by blood culture.  For the patients with gram-negative bacteremia followed to death or day 28, there were 45 deaths among the 92 recipients of placebo (49 percent) and 32 deaths among the 105 recipients of HA-1A (30 percent; P = 0.014).  For the patients with gram-negative bacteremia and shock at entry, there were 27 deaths among the 47 recipients of placebo (57 percent) and 18 deaths among the 54 recipients of HA-1A (33 percent; P = 0.017).  Analyses that stratified according to the severity of illness at entry showed improved survival with HA-1A treatment in both severely ill and less severely ill patients.  Of the 196 patients with gram-negative bacteremia who were followed to hospital discharge or death, 45 of the 93 given placebo (48 percent) were discharged alive, as compared with 65 of the 103 treated with HA-1A (63 percent; P = 0.038).  No benefit of treatment with HA-1A was demonstrated in the 343 patients with sepsis who did not prove to have gram-negative bacteremia.  For all 543 patients with sepsis who were treated, the mortality rate was 43 percent among the recipients of placebo and 39 percent among those given HA-1A (P = 0.24).  All patients tolerated HA-1A well, and no anti-HA-1A antibodies were detected.  CONCLUSIONS.  HA-1A is safe and effective for the treatment of patients with sepsis and gram-negative bacteremia.
Etiologic, clinical, and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in Argentinian children under 5 years of age.  During a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) who were admitted to three hospitals in Buenos Aires, 31 fatal cases were recorded--a fatality rate of 3.8%.  Of the 31 children who died, 77% were less than 1 year of age, 48% were boys, 58% were malnourished, 29% had previous respiratory disease, and 22% had previous congenital disease.  All children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia (71%) or bronchiolitis (29%).  Autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases.  Viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates (NPA) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood, lung tissue, and/or pleural fluid.  NPA was examined for Bordetella pertussis by IIF.  Pathogens were identified in 65% of fatal cases.  Seven cases were bacterial; seven cases were viral; and six cases resulted from mixed infections.  Lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases.  Histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions (n = 5) and multifocal pneumonia (n = 9).
A randomized trial of fully intermittent vs. daily followed by intermittent short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis   Fully intermittent short course chemotherapy regimens have been used successfully in adults but not in children.  We report the results on 76 children with tuberculosis, excluding central nervous system tuberculosis and primary pulmonary complex.  Isoniazid, rifampin and pyrazinamide were used for treatment.  They were randomly allocated to Regimen A (52 doses) and Regimen B (94 doses).  Overall efficacy of both schedules was greater than 95% in 27 children with lymphatic, 43 with pulmonary and 6 with disseminated tuberculosis.  Compliance in 10 children after 2 to 4 months of therapy was poor because rapid improvement was mistaken by parents for cure.  Two children died, probably of underlying lung disease.  Follow-up for up to 2 years did not reveal any case of relapse or recurrence of the disease.  Therapy for 6 months involving administration of only 52 or 94 doses of drugs was found to be economical, effective and safe for treating children with tuberculosis.
Preexposure of the peritoneum to live bacteria increases later mixed intraabdominal abscess formation and delays mortality.  Intraabdominal infections are a major source of morbidity and mortality for the trauma and postoperative patient.  Transient peritoneal contamination with bacteria after either intentional or unintentional violation of the gut are common.  The effect of this intermittent antigen exposure upon later formation of intraabdominal abscesses is unclear.  Previous experiments by others have demonstrated that repeated exposure to Bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide can induce a T lymphocyte-mediated immunity to subsequent induction of pure B.  fragilis abscess formation.  In a murine mixed intraabdominal abscess model, preexposure to live Escherichia coli, B.  fragilis, or both increased the number of later abscesses and in some cases their bacterial composition.  Further, immunization with E.  coli alone increased late mortality without altering overall mortality.  These data suggest that the alterations of immune function produced by live, transient bacteria upon subsequent mixed intraabdominal abscess induction result in fundamentally different consequences from those observed after specific polysaccharide antigen exposure and subsequent monomicrobial abscess induction.
Reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament.  The results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free, autogenous, non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution.  Eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years.  In forty-eight (60 per cent) of the knees, the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band.  The patients were evaluated with a physical examination, a KT-1000 arthrometer, radiographs, a subjective questionnaire, and a revision of the scale of The Hospital for Special Surgery for rating ligaments.  Postoperatively, seventy-six (95 per cent) of the eighty knees no longer gave way, and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven (84 per cent) of the knees.  The average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points.  All of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction.  Arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty (76 per cent) of the treated knees.  In the patient who had bilateral reconstruction, the laxity was the same in both knees.  Seventeen patients, who had more than three millimeters of translation, also had additional related ligamentous instability, most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament.  We think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction.
Topical vancomycin for the treatment of Staphylococcus epidermidis and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus conjunctivitis.  Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis are organisms that frequently cause conjunctivitis or blepharoconjunctivitis.  We describe a patient with methicillin-resistant S.  aureus and S.  epidermidis conjunctivitis who was treated successfully using an extemporaneously prepared topical ophthalmic solution of vancomycin hydrochloride 31 mg/mL.  Studies describing the preparation, stability, and comfort of this solution, as well as reports pertaining to efficacy, are reviewed.  Controlled clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of vancomycin ophthalmic solution have not yet been performed.
Cytologic diagnosis of aspergillosis in cardiac transplantation.  Fine-needle aspiration of the lung is now widely utilized to diagnose pulmonary neoplasms, but often serologic techniques or open-lung biopsy is relied on for the diagnosis of infectious pulmonary processes.  We report a series of four patients in whom the fine-needle aspiration technique was used to make the rapid cytologic diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis.  Culture confirmation was also obtained on the aspirated material.  A discussion of the available techniques for the laboratory diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis is presented and the advantages of fine-needle aspiration cytology are stressed.  Our favorable results support expanded use of fine-needle aspiration cytology in the evaluation of lung nodules appearing in immunosuppressed populations.
Mycetoma: comparison of MR imaging with CT.  Magnetic resonance (MR) images obtained in 18 patients with pathologically confirmed mycetoma in the body (n = 4) or lower extremity (n = 14) were retrospectively reviewed and compared with computed tomographic (CT) scans in 15 patients and surgical findings in 10.  T1-weighted images showed an infiltrating mass (same signal intensity as muscle) involving skin, subcutaneous fat, muscles, tendons, and other tissues.  On T2-weighted images, the mass and affected structures showed moderately increased signal intensity.  Bone marrow involvement was detected in seven patients and was best visualized on T1-weighted images.  CT showed moderate enhancement of the infiltrative process in all patients.  Bone changes, seen in nine, included coarse trabeculation, periosteal reaction, endosteal proliferation, and patchy destruction.  MR imaging and CT were comparable and correlated well with surgery in showing the extent of soft-tissue involvement.  Early bone changes (important for therapy planning for pedal mycetoma) were seen only at CT.  The study showed that MR imaging is sensitive for assessing the extent of mycetoma in the soft tissues.  CT should be the method of choice for staging pedal lesions because it can be used to detect early bone involvement.
Role of prophylactic antibiotics in uncontaminated neck dissections.  The use of perioperative prophylactic antibiotics in uncontaminated head and neck surgery remains controversial.  We performed a retrospective analysis of 192 patients undergoing uncontaminated neck dissections from 1976 to 1989.  Wound infection developed in 10% (10/99) of patients who did not receive antibiotics, while only three (3.3%) of 93 patients who received antibiotics developed infections.  This difference was not statistically significant.  We correlated the use of flaps, length of surgery, prior radiation treatment, and postoperative complications with rate of wound infection.  The difference was not statistically significant for any of these variables.  Our beta error was, however, greater than 0.2.  Our data do not demonstrate efficacy of prophylactic antibiotics in uncontaminated neck dissections with statistical significance; however, a trend exists suggesting its possible value.
Pediatric emergency room visits: a risk factor for acquiring measles.  In recent years, measles outbreaks have occurred among unimmunized children in inner cities in the United States.  From May 1988 through June 1989, 1214 measles cases were reported in Los Angeles, and from October 1988 through June 1989, 1730 cases were reported in Houston.  More than half of cases were in children younger than 5 years of age, most of whom were unvaccinated.  Of cases of measles in preschool-aged children, nearly one fourth in Los Angeles and more than one third in Houston were reported by one inner-city emergency room.  To evaluate whether emergency room visits were a risk factor for acquiring measles, in Los Angeles, 35 measles patients and 109 control patients with illnesses other than measles, and in Houston, 49 measles patients and 128 control patients, who visited these emergency rooms, were enrolled in case-control studies.  Control patients were matched to case patients for ethnicity, age, and week of visit.  Records were reviewed to determine whether case patients had visited the emergency room during the period of potential measles exposure, which was defined as 10 to 18 days before rash onset, and whether control patients had visited 10 to 18 days before their enrollment visit.  In Los Angeles, 23% of case patients and 5% of control patients (odds ratio = 5.2, 95% confidence interval = 1.7, 15.9; P less than .01), and in Houston, 41% of case patients and 6% of control patients (odds ratio = 8.4, 95% confidence interval = 3.3, 21.2; P less than .01), visited the emergency room during these periods.
An outbreak of tuberculosis in a shelter for homeless men. A description of its evolution and control.  An outbreak of tuberculosis at a shelter for homeless men was studied in detail to further the understanding of the epidemiology of tuberculosis in this setting.  The shelter provides evening accommodations for men aged 50 yr and older.  The capacity is approximately 200 clients, and the client pool is approximately 1,000 men/yr.  During a 6-wk period in December 1986 and January 1987, seven cases of tuberculosis were diagnosed in shelter clients.  Nine cases were reported in clients during the preceding 12 months, and four cases in the year previous to that.  The majority of outbreak cases were pulmonary tuberculosis, sputum smear positive.  Drug resistance was rare.  Phage typing of 15 Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates revealed one predominant type and four other types.  The goals of the control plan (and the steps taken to achieve them) were to render known infectious cases noninfectious (directly observed therapy); to find undiagnosed infectious cases (repetitive mass screenings); to protect exposed clients (repetitive tuberculin skin testing and isoniazid preventive therapy); and to make the shelter environment safe (exclude infectious, noncompliant clients and improve the shelter's ventilation system).  Implementation of this plan rapidly terminated the outbreak; following the first mass screening in January 1987, at which six asymptomatic cases were detected, only five additional cases occurred in shelter clients during a 2-yr period of follow-up.  The investigation suggested that the outbreak evolved during 1986 as a result of the presence at the shelter of an increasing number of men with undiagnosed infectious pulmonary tuberculosis.
Treatment of refractory oral candidiasis with fluconazole. A case report.  We describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who had persistent oral esophageal pseudomembranous candidiasis clinically refractory to nystatin, clotrimazole, and ketoconazole.  In vitro resistance to clotrimazole was demonstrated as well.  The patient received temporary relief with intravenous amphotericin B therapy, but this was associated with serious adverse effects, including transfusion-requiring anemia, azotemia, and severe thrombophlebitis.  Despite two courses of intravenous amphotericin B therapy, the patient's highly symptomatic, recurrent oral and esophageal candidiasis continued.  The patient was then treated with fluconazole and obtained immediate relief without associated adverse effects.
Hepatic abscess. Changes in etiology, diagnosis, and management.  Most recent reviews of pyogenic hepatic abscess emphasize percutaneous versus open surgical management and devote little time to studying the etiology or the clinical condition of the patient.  In this study a detailed review was performed with a computerized analysis of multiple clinical parameters in 73 patients treated for pyogenic hepatic abscess during a 17-year period.  The mean age of the patients was 55 years and 38 of them (52%) were male.  The mortality rate was comparable for solitary (17%) and multiple (23%) abscesses.  The likelihood of death was higher with antibiotic treatment alone (45%) or percutaneous treatment (25%) than with surgical treatment (9.5%).  The primary determinant of outcome, however, was the underlying disease, i.e., malignancy or an immunocompromised patient, rather than solitary versus multiple abscesses.  In addition the incidence of hepatic abscess seen at this center has doubled from the first half to the second half of the review, reflecting a population of more severely ill patients.  It is apparent that in current clinical practice several methods of management are effective, and the choice of therapy should be determined by individualized selection.  The principle of timely diagnosis and prompt institution of treatment appropriate to the specific patient remains the standard of care in this potentially grave disease.
Tuberculous meningitis.  Tuberculous meningitis is an uncommon but potentially devastating form of tuberculosis.  Current antituberculous drugs are highly effective when treatment is initiated early, before the onset of altered mentation or focal neurologic deficits.  Because the clinical outcome depends greatly on the stage at which therapy is initiated, early recognition is of paramount importance.  Patients with the meningoencephalitis syndrome and CSF findings of low glucose levels, elevated protein levels, and pleocytosis should be treated immediately if there is evidence of TB elsewhere in the body, or if prompt evaluation fails to establish an alternative diagnosis.  Examination of CSF is the best diagnostic approach; with sufficient diligence, serial AFB smears and cultures will usually yield positive results, even days after therapy has been started.  The CT scan is an important and highly effective tool for the diagnosis and management of patients with TBM.  In a patient with compatible clinical features, the combination of basilar meningeal enhancement and any degree of hydrocephalus is strongly suggestive of the diagnosis of TBM.  Serial evaluation by CT scanning is useful for following the course of hydrocephalus and tuberculoma, particularly in reference to the need for, or response to, adjunctive therapy with corticosteroids and surgery.  The decision to administer corticosteroids should be based on careful correlation of the clinical and radiographic features of the case.  Surgical shunting should be considered early in the patient with hydrocephalus and symptoms of raised intracranial pressure.  Tuberculomas are best treated medically, often in conjunction with corticosteroids where cerebral edema is believed to contribute to neurologic decline.  The recommended chemotherapy regimen is isoniazid and rifampin in all patients, together with pyrazinamide for the first 2 months.
Fungal tracheobronchitis. Report of 9 cases and review of the literature.  Clinical, roentgenographic and pathologic findings are described in 9 patients with fungal tracheobronchitis and comparison is made with 25 additional cases in the literature.  Two morphologic patterns were identified: the first appears as a pseudomembrane of necrotic tissue, exudate, and fungal hyphae involving more-or-less the entire circumference of the bronchial wall or as mucus/fungus plugs completely occluding the airway lumen; the second consists of single or multiple discrete plaques on the airway wall, sometimes associated with invasion of the adjacent lung parenchyma or pulmonary artery.  As with more invasive forms of fungal infection, a compromise in host defenses is probably the most important factor leading to fungal colonization and subsequent local invasion.  Malignancies of the hematologic and lymphoreticular systems, solid neoplasms, granulocytopenia, and a history of a protracted course of broad-spectrum antibiotics, corticosteroids, and chemotherapy were present in most of our patients and in those reported in the literature.  Despite this, there is some evidence that tracheobronchitis may occur in individuals with a relatively lesser degree of host defense impairment.  Local damage to the airway wall such as occurs with prolonged mechanical ventilatory support, neoplastic infiltration, or nonfungal infection may also be a factor predisposing to fungal colonization and invasion.  In 4 of our patients, the fungal infection of the tracheobronchial tree probably contributed significantly to the development of terminal respiratory failure.  Although recognition of the infection may not have altered the course of the underlying disease in some of our patients, in others identification and early treatment might have been life-saving.  Thus, culture and histologic examination of bronchoscopically identified tracheobronchial mucus plugs and necrotic material should be performed in all immunocompromised individuals.
Immunologic evidence for the in situ deposition of a cytoplasmic streptococcal antigen (endostreptosin) on the glomerular basement membrane in rats.  Endostreptosin (ESS) is an antigen derived from the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of nephritogenic group A and to a lesser extent group C and G streptococci.  It is immunologically not related to streptococcal exoenzymes or the streptococcal cell wall and can be detected on the endothelial side of the glomerular basement membrane of kidney biopsies of patients with acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (ASGN) during the early phase of the disease.  Highest and most persistent antibody titers to this antigen are found in patients with ASGN.  Immunoaffinity isolated ESS was injected i.v.  into the tail vein of Wistar Furth (W/FU) rats for up to five successive days.  The animals were sacrificed on days 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.  Frozen sections of the rat kidneys were tested by immunofluorescence against rabbit anti-ESS-antibody and against sera from patients who had recently recovered from ASGN as well as against anti-rat-IgG and C3.  The basement membranes of rat kidneys were positive for ESS deposition starting from day one on, but were negative for anti-rat IgG and C3 during the first four days.  Rats sacrificed on days 8-12 showed increasing deposition of IgG and C3 with decreased staining for ESS.  The sera of rats sacrificed on days 1-3 had no detectable anti-ESS antibodies; whereas animals from day 4 on had low levels of anti-ESS antibodies as determined by microcomplement fixation.  Control animals showed no staining for ESS, IgG, C3 as well as no detectable anti-ESS antibodies.
Lumbar puncture frequency and cerebrospinal fluid analysis in the neonate.  A prospective study was performed to assess the frequency and diagnostic utility of lumbar punctures in neonates both during their first week of life and thereafter.  During the two 6-month periods from January 1, 1985 to June 30, 1985, and February 1, 1986 to July 31, 1986, 712 neonates underwent 728 lumbar punctures during their first week of life primarily as part of the evaluation for suspected infection, either congenital or postnatal.  There were eight patients with positive spinal fluid cultures in the first week of life, but only one patient simultaneously had a positive blood culture and a clinical course consistent with meningitis.  In contrast, a considerably higher yield, approximating five times that of the first week of life, was obtained in patients undergoing a lumbar puncture after the first week of life.
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis versus invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: two cases with unusual pathologic findings and review of the literature.  Two brothers simultaneously exposed to moldy hay, who developed differing forms of Aspergillus-related lung disease, are presented.  Patient 1 developed a true case of hypersensitivity lung disease, whereas his brother developed invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophilia and unusual pathologic features including tissue eosinophilia.  The possible overlap between hypersensitivity pneumonitis and invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompetent host is discussed.
Diets enriched with N-3 fatty acids ameliorate lactic acidosis by improving endotoxin-induced tissue hypoperfusion in guinea pigs.  The effect of 6 weeks dietary lipid manipulation on the acute physiologic response to 7-hour continuous endotoxin infusion in guinea pigs was examined.  One diet was enriched with N-3 fatty acids, whereas the other contained N-6 fatty acids, primarily linoleic acid.  Animals fed N-6 fatty acids developed significant lactic acidemia, microvascular muscle hypoperfusion, and pulmonary infiltrates in response to endotoxin infusion.  N-3 fatty acid-fed animals demonstrated improved lactate levels, microvascular muscle perfusion, and lung morphology compared to N-6 fatty acid-fed animals after endotoxin infusion.  There was no significant change in cardiac output, PaO2, or mean arterial blood pressure at the end of the endotoxin infusion in either group.  Pretreatment with indomethacin, or BM 13505, a specific thromboxane A2 receptor blocker, ameliorated the development of metabolic acidosis in N-6 fatty acid-fed animals, demonstrating a role for prostanoids in the sequelae of endotoxemia.  The ability of dietary pretreatment with N-3 fatty acids to influence favorably the physiologic response to endotoxin represents a novel nutrient-metabolic interaction with potential therapeutic implications.
Hageman factor-dependent kinin activation in burns and its theoretical relationship to postburn immunosuppression syndrome and infection.  Burn injury and intradermal injection of bradykinin or histamine cause permeability changes visualized as dye-release lesions in the skin of guinea pigs injected intravenously with Evans blue dye.  Antihistamine pretreatment ablates the histamine but not the effect of thermal injury or bradykinin.  Bradykinin is generated via activation of Hageman factor in a two-step reaction.  Steps 1 and 2 can be inhibited by corn trypsin inhibitor and soy bean trypsin inhibitors, respectively.  Dye-release lesions were reduced from thermal injury and bradykinin injections when these substances were injected into the skin first.  Angiotensin-converting enzyme deactivates bradykinin by degrading it.  Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor neutralizes angiotensin-converting enzyme.  Dye-release lesions from both thermal injury and bradykinin injection were enhanced because of continued bradykinin build-up when these treatments were preceded by subcutaneous injections of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor.  Thus bradykinin is generated in thermal injury via the Hageman factor-dependent pathway.  Hageman factor sits at the apex of a series of interrelated cascade systems, all of which impinge on the animal's immune status.  Uncontrolled Hagemen factor activation in thermal injury may be the link among all the events collectively known as the "post thermal injury immunosuppression syndrome.".
Whipple's disease can mimic chronic AIDS enteropathy.  Previous case reports have demonstrated that the intestinal pathology of Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare (MAI) infection in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) has a light microscopic appearance similar to Whipple's disease.  This case report describes a 52-yr-old male patient with a clinical picture suggestive of AIDS, including diarrhea, weight loss, oral thrush, and intestinal cryptosporidiosis.  The intestinal biopsy showed light microscopic features compatible with either MAI or Whipple's disease, but electron microscopy confirmed the presence of the Whipple bacillus.  Markers of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection were absent.  Although immune abnormalities have been reported in Whipple's disease, this is the first report of opportunistic infections complicating this condition.  A useful clinical pearl emerges from this and other cases: AIDS can mimic Whipple's disease; Whipple's disease can mimic AIDS.
Derivation and validation of a clinical diagnostic model for chlamydial cervical infection in university women   We developed and prospectively tested a logistic regression model for chlamydial cervical infection.  Study subjects included 2271 women receiving gynecologic care in our student health clinic.  Clinical data were collected in a standardized fashion.  We identified cell culture--isolated Chlamydia trachomatis from 133 (9%) of 1458 subjects in the derivation set and 73 (10%) of 729 subjects in the validation set.  Model variables included a new sexual partner within 2 months or more than one sexual partner within 6 months; cervical ectopy; cervical friability; at least 20 polymorphonuclear leukocytes per high-power field in cervical secretions; white blood cells in vaginal secretions; and use of an antibiotic active against C trachomatis within a month.  This model can distinguish women with low, medium, and high risks of chlamydial infection (on derivation set: receiver operating characteristic curve area, 0.710; SE, 0.026; on validation set: area, 0.698; SE, 0.035) using simple clinical information obtained in the office.
Effect of indomethacin on the pathophysiology of experimental meningitis in rabbits.  The effects of indomethacin on central nervous system abnormalities in rabbits with experimental pneumococcal meningitis were studied.  As expected, prostaglandin E2 levels in cerebrospinal fluid were significantly lower in the indomethacin-treated group, indicating that the drug effectively reduced prostaglandin synthesis.  Brain edema was markedly attenuated in the indomethacin-treated group; however, cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell counts, lactate and protein concentrations, and intracisternal pressure were not significantly different between groups.  It seems that indomethacin, while effective in reducing brain edema, does not significantly affect other important pathophysiologic alterations in experimental pneumococcal meningitis.
Haemophilus influenzae meningitis with prolonged hospital course.  A retrospective evaluation of Haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis observed over a 2-year period documented 86 cases.  Eight of these patients demonstrated an unusual clinical course characterized by persistent fever (duration: greater than 10 days), cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis, profound meningeal enhancement on computed tomography, significant morbidity, and a prolonged hospital course.  The mean age of these 8 patients was 6 months, in contrast to a mean age of 14 months for the entire group.  Two patients had clinical evidence of relapse.  Four of the 8 patients tested for latex particle agglutination in the cerebrospinal fluid remained positive after 10 days.  All patients received antimicrobial therapy until they were afebrile for a minimum of 5 days.  Subsequent neurologic examination revealed a persistent seizure disorder in 5 patients (62.5%), moderate-to-profound hearing loss in 2 (25%), mild ataxia in 1 (12.5%), and developmental delay with hydrocephalus which required shunting in 1 (12.5%).  One patient had no sequelae.
Nd:YAG-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas.  Forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor.  The 1.32 microns Nd:YAG-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments.  Tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the Nd:YAG-laser.  This technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half.  The Nd:YAG-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20% to zero.  The postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76% of the patients.  The use of the 1.32 microns Nd:YAG-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma.
Bacterial colonization of the upper respiratory tract and its association with acute lower respiratory tract infections in Highland children of Papua New Guinea.  Acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) is the major cause of death among children in Papua New Guinea.  This longitudinal study reports the bacteriologic findings for children observed in their hamlets.  A total of 1,449 nasal swab specimens from 158 children less than 5 years of age who were studied intensively for 18 months were examined.  Non-serotypable strains of Haemophilus influenzae were isolated from 91% of specimens, and serotypable strains were isolated from 35% (8% H.  influenzae type b) of specimens.  All children had acquired Streptococcus pneumoniae by the age of 3 months.  The most frequently occurring serotypes of S.  pneumoniae were 6, 19, and 23.  Children more frequently carried invasive pneumococci during an episode of ALRI than when they were healthy.  Also, children more frequently carried serotypable strains of H.  influenzae during the 2 weeks preceding an episode of ALRI than when they were healthy.  Between-children analyses showed that children who were susceptible to attacks of ALRI and those who were not susceptible had similar rates of carriage of bacteria.
Patrick Watson-Williams and the concept of focal sepsis in the sinuses: an historical caveat for functional endoscopic sinus surgery.  From 1900 to 1940 the theory of focal sepsis was invoked to justify a number of dubious surgical procedures.  Surgeons believed they were acting rationally.  Patrick Watson-Williams advocated suction exploration of the paranasal sinuses for mental patients, claiming to cure criminal insanity by sphenoidotomy.  Favourable contemporary reviews showed international approval.  The rational basis of treatment was emphasised, but there was little systematic evaluation of outcome.  Current enthusiasm for functional endoscopic sinus surgery is also based on a rational approach, logical deductions from pathophysiological 'facts'.  Outcome has still not been evaluated scientifically.  We should learn from history.  Treatment should not be based too readily on what seems to be rational now.  Ideas of physiology and pathology change.  What seems logical today may appear ridiculous tomorrow.  Careful analysis of outcome, preferably by controlled clinical trials, is needed as a rational treatment requires empirical validation just as much as any other.
Effect of oxygen-free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis.  Sepsis remains a leading cause of death in the surgical intensive care unit (SICU) patient following major surgery or trauma.  Recent work has demonstrated that oxygen-free radicals (OFR) generated during sepsis contribute to the pathogenesis of this syndrome.  The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various new free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis.  A total of 85 male Sprague-Dawley rats were placed into one of the following treatment groups.  CONTROL: cecal ligation and puncture (CLP); PRE-AT: pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol (AT) 10 mg/100 gm SC x 3 days, and 5 mg/100 gm IV prior to CLP; AT: 20 mg/100 gm at time of CLP and 4 hours following CLP; U74006F: (21-aminosteroid which inhibits lipid peroxidation) 3 mg/kg IV at the time of and 4 hours following CLP; U78517F: (alpha-tocopherol analogue) 3 mg/kg at the time of and 4 hours following CLP.  Survival was determined at various time points up to 72 hours.  Pretreatment with AT resulted in improved survival, whereas the novel OFR scavengers U78517F and U74006F significantly improved survival and were efficacious without pretreatment.  It was concluded that OFR scavengers can improve survival in sepsis.
Amoxicillin treatment of bacterial vaginosis during pregnancy.  The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the efficacy of amoxicillin for treatment of bacterial vaginosis during pregnancy.  The diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was established by clinical examination and microscopic examination of a Gram stain and saline preparation of vaginal secretions.  In a double-blind, randomized manner, 108 patients at 15-25 weeks' gestation were assigned to treatment with oral amoxicillin, 500 mg three times daily for 14 days, or placebo.  Patients were evaluated 2 weeks after treatment, at 34-36 weeks' gestation, and at delivery.  There were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to any clinical or microbiologic measure of treatment outcome.  There were also no significant differences in the frequency of obstetric complications.  We conclude that amoxicillin is not effective therapy for bacterial vaginosis in pregnant women.
Utility of collecting blood cultures through newly inserted intravenous catheters.  We prospectively examined the utility of obtaining blood cultures through newly inserted intravenous catheters in 99 children who required both a blood culture and placement of an intravenous catheter.  Two blood cultures were collected from each patient, one through a freshly inserted intravenous catheter and another through a butterfly needle at a separate venipuncture site.  A standardized technique of skin preparation with povidone-iodine was used.  The rate of contamination was 1.0% (95% confidence intervals, 0 to 3.0%) for each method.  Ten patients had blood cultures yielding true pathogens; in five of these bacteremic children, only one of two sets of blood cultures was positive.  We conclude that blood cultures can be collected through freshly placed intravenous catheters without increasing the risk of contamination.  These results also raise the possibility that obtaining two blood cultures instead of a single culture may improve the detection of bacteremia in children.
Gentamicin iontophoresis in the treatment of bacterial otitis externa in the guinea pig model.  Pseudomonas otitis externa is one of the most common infections treated by otolaryngologists.  Infections induced in 30 guinea pigs appeared similar to that seen in humans.  The ears were then placed into four treatment groups: group A, which received a single cleaning; group B, which received a single cleaning followed by gentamicin drops 4 times daily; group C, which received a single cleaning followed by a single gentamicin iontophoresis treatment; and group D, the control group, which received no treatment.  Infections were analyzed by grading edema, purulence, and erythema.  An average of 10.2 days was required for control group to return to normal appearance.  Groups A, B, and C had mean resolution times of 5.9, 4.7, and 4.3 days, respectively.  Gentamicin iontophoresis appears to be promising, with results as good as drop therapy in otitis externa in the guinea pig model.
Effect of steroids on cerebrospinal fluid penetration of antituberculous drugs in tuberculous meningitis.  Sixteen patients with oral isoniazid, pyrazinamide, rifampin, and intramuscular streptomycin for tuberculous meningitis were studied.  The concentrations of isoniazid, pyrazinamide, rifampin, and streptomycin in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained 3 hours after administration were 2.40, 34.78, 0.29, and 3.78 micrograms/ml, respectively.  The CSF concentrations of isoniazid and pyrazinamide were well above the minimum inhibitory concentration for Mycobacterium tuberculosis.  Concentrations of rifampin and streptomycin were above the minimal inhibitory concentration initially but declined below the minimal inhibitory concentration at later times.  The CSF penetration of isoniazid, pyrazinamide, rifampin, and streptomycin was about 89%, 91%, 5%, and 20%, respectively.  In eight patients who received antituberculous drugs in combination with steroids, the mean CSF and serum concentrations, as well as CSF/serum ratios at various intervals of treatment, were not statistically different (p greater than 0.05) from those of the eight patients who did not receive steroids.
Cefotaxime and aminoglycoside treatment of meningitis caused by gram-negative enteric organisms.  We reviewed cases of Gram-negative enteric bacillary meningitis in infants and children treated with cefotaxime at Texas Children's Hospital from January, 1984, through June, 1989.  Seventeen of 20 children had an underlying condition predisposing to the development of meningitis.  The etiologic organisms in these 20 children (2 days to 12 years old; median, 12 days old) were Klebsiella sp, 9; Escherichia coli, 4; Enterobacter cloacae, 3; Citrobacter diversus, 2; other, 2.  With the exception of one isolate of Acinetobacter, all isolates were susceptible to cefotaxime.  In addition to cefotaxime 17 children received an aminoglycoside intravenously.  Children with meningitis caused by Klebsiella sp.  or non-Klebsiella organisms received cefotaxime for 31 +/- 14 and 37 +/- 17 days, respectively.  Aminoglycosides were administered for 16 +/- 10 days in both groups.  Five children in each group also received intraventricular doses (1 to 25) of an aminoglycoside (9) or colistimethate (1).  The mean durations of positive lumbar, ventricular cerebrospinal fluid or brain abscess cultures were 5.8 +/- 4.7 and 7.2 +/- 5.0 days after start of therapy in the Klebsiella and non-Klebsiella meningitis patients, respectively.  Only three children were normal at the time of discharge or follow-up.  Gram-negative enteric meningitis remains difficult to treat despite the excellent in vitro activity of cefotaxime against Gram-negative enterics, in part as a result of the predisposing conditions resulting in the development of this infection.
A rabbit model for bacteria-induced preterm pregnancy loss.  Bacterial infection has been implicated in premature labor in humans.  To elucidate mechanisms and potential intervention strategies, we sought to develop a model of infection-induced pregnancy loss in rabbits.  On day 21 (70% of gestation), each uterine horn was inoculated hysteroscopically with 0.2 ml containing saline solution of 10(6) cfu Escherichia coli or Bacteroides bivius or Fusobacterium necrophorum.  Fetal viability was assessed.  Animals were sacrificed at various times or as delivery occurred.  Serum progesterone and amniotic fluid prostaglandins were measured.  Cultures and histologic sections were prepared.  Compared with the saline solution group, E coli and F.  necrophorum-inoculated rabbits were significantly more likely to deliver (16 of 16 and six of seven with mean times of 31.9 +/- 10.7 and 28.3 +/- 11.5 hours, respectively for E.  coli and F.  necrophorum).  Positive amniotic fluid cultures for the E.  coli group were found in 11 of 12 (92%) and for the F.  necrophorum group in three of three cases (100%).  Histologic inflammation was seen heavily in both the E.  coli and F.  necrophorum groups, whereas it was absent in the saline solution group.  Inoculation with B.  bivius led to a much lower pregnancy loss rate (eight of 32) and less histologic inflammation despite positive uterine cultures in most animals.  This model may provide an opportunity to determine mechanisms of clinical or subclinical intraamniotic infection and to test intervention strategies.
Infection in total joint replacement.  Although a small number of infections in total joint replacements are blood borne from distant sources, most infections appear to have been derived at operation.  Strenuous attempts to reduce this risk by cleaning the air in the wound environment, coupled with prophylactic antibiotics, have reduced infection rates by an order of magnitude in a decade.  During that time the potential for exchange arthroplasty in established infection has been shown, and the results are encouraging.  Rigorous infection control is the key to containing this difficult and expensive problem.
Influence of untreated chronic plastic iridocyclitis on intraocular pressure in leprosy patients.  The intraocular pressures of a total of 286 eyes of patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous leprosy who never had regular ophthalmological care or local eye treatment were measured.  The patients were categorised according to the type of leprosy they had, and the eyes were categorised as without or with chronic plastic iridocyclitis.  In patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous types of leprosy the intraocular pressure was significantly lower in eyes with chronic plastic iridocylitis 10.1 (3.6) mmHg than in both unaffected eyes 11.0 (3.2) mmHg and control eyes 13.5 (2.5) mmHg.  It has been shown that chronic plastic iridocyclitis which remains untreated for years results in a lower intraocular pressure than normal.
Community-acquired pulmonary infections in a public municipal hospital in the 1980s.  The relative and absolute incidences of community-acquired bacterial and tuberculous pulmonary infections, in patients admitted to a public municipal hospital, and the clinical and radiographic characteristics of these infections were retrospectively determined for the first time in 20 years.  The data were compared to those previously reported in the literature.  Such data were also specifically determined for alcoholics and compared to those found in nonalcoholics.  The absolute numbers of infections due to pneumococci and anaerobes, and to tuberculosis, were not dissimilar to those reported in the literature, even though relatively few hemophilus infections were documented.  The lack of Klebsiella sp infections was remarkable but not unexpected.  Alcoholic patients had significantly higher rates of tuberculosis, cavitary disease, lung disease presumably due to anaerobes, and blood-culture-positive pneumonia.  The relative concordance of our results for bacterial and tuberculous infections with those predicted from the published literature was striking.  The high frequency of tuberculosis in our patients was particularly striking at a time when the incidence of tuberculosis nationwide, in patients without acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, has declined significantly.
Efficacy of short courses of oral novobiocin-rifampin in eradicating carrier state of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and in vitro killing studies of clinical isolates.  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is an important nosocomial infection problem.  Colonization appears to be more common than invasive disease is.  Eradication of colonization or the carrier state could limit the spread of MRSA, thus reducing the potential for mortality and morbidity in other patients.  The detection of patients with MRSA infection in a rehabilitation ward led to a study of the combination of novobiocin-rifampin in vivo and in vitro.  We found that 300 mg of rifampin plus 500 mg of novobiocin orally twice daily for 5 days, in 18 courses of treatment given to 12 patients, resulted in the clearing of MRSA in 79% of the evaluable courses and 81% of the evaluable sites.  A second course cleared MRSA from one of the patients with a treatment failure.  Side effects were not noted.  All 18 pretherapy isolates were susceptible to either drug in vitro, but 1 of 2 posttherapy isolates was rifampin resistant.  Timed-kill studies demonstrated that the rate of killing was the same with either drug alone or both drugs together.  Pretherapy isolates from treatment successes or failure were killed at the same rate by the drug combination.  However, with the rifampin-resistant isolate killing ceased after 48 h.  Results of this study suggest that previously untreated patients are likely to have isolates that are susceptible to the combination of drugs and that the combination is commonly effective in eradicating MRSA carriage.  Since the regimen is orally administered, and thus convenient, in conjunction with other measures it has the promise of reducing the spread of MRSA in hospitals.
Epidemiology in bone and joint infection.  The studies of community-acquired infection indicate the importance of the environment in which the host-pathogen interaction takes place.  Whereas the high incidence rates at the extremes of life are compatible with a hypothesis of diminished immune competence, the varying rates of acute osteomyelitis during growth, and its predominantly metaphyseal site, suggest that further studies of the molecular biology of this rather specific infection would be revealing.  Molecular biology has a role, too, in improving understanding of the epidemiology of resistance and pathogenicity in hospital-acquired infections.  Although antibiotic prescription and other medical practices influence the environment profoundly, we should remember that we may be experiencing long-term trends beyond our present understanding.  As more and more reconstructive bone and joint surgery is carried out, careful observational epidemiology remains a vital tool.
Management of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection in adults.  Acute uncomplicated UTI is one of the most common problems for which young women seek medical attention, and it accounts for considerable morbidity and health care costs.  Acute cystitis is a superficial infection of the bladder mucosa, whereas pyelonephritis involves tissue invasion of the upper urinary tract.  Localization tests suggest that as many as one third of episodes of acute cystitis are associated with silent upper tract involvement.  Acute cystitis or pyelonephritis in the adult patient should be considered uncomplicated if the patient is not pregnant or elderly, if there has been no recent instrumentation or antimicrobial treatment, and if there are no known functional or anatomic abnormalities of the genitourinary tract.  Most of these infections are caused by E.  coli, which are susceptible to many oral antimicrobials.  Because of the superficial nature of cystitis, single-dose and 3-day regimens have gained wide acceptance as the preferred methods of treatment.  Review of the published data suggests that a 3-day regimen is more effective than a single-dose regimen for all antimicrobials tested.  Regimens with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole appear to be more effective than those with beta-lactams, regardless of the duration.  Acute pyelonephritis does not necessarily imply a complicated infection.  Upper tract infection with highly virulent uropathogens in an otherwise healthy woman may be considered an uncomplicated infection.  The optimal treatment duration for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis has not been established, and 14-day regimens are often used.  We prefer to use antimicrobials that attain high renal tissue levels, such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or quinolones, for pyelonephritis.  Women with frequently recurring infections can be successfully managed by continuous prophylaxis, either daily or thrice-weekly, by postcoital prophylaxis, or, in compliant patients, by early self-administration of single-dose or 3-day therapy as soon as typical symptoms are noted.  Our drug of choice for all these regimens is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.  Acute uncomplicated cystitis in adult men is very uncommon, but it is occasionally noted in homosexual men who practice insertive and intercourse or in heterosexual men whose partners have vaginal colonization with E.  coli.
Urinary nitrate excretion in relation to murine macrophage activation. Influence of dietary L-arginine and oral NG-monomethyl-L-arginine.  Murine macrophage oxidation of L-arginine guanidino nitrogen to nitrite/nitrate yields an intermediate effector, possibly nitric oxide, with antimicrobial activity.  Total body nitrogen oxidation metabolism (NOM) was measured in vivo by determining the urinary nitrate excretion of mice ingesting a chemically defined nitrite/nitrate-free diet.  As reported previously, mycobacterial infection with bacillus Calmette-Guerin led to a large increase in urinary nitrate excretion.  This increase was temporally related to macrophage activation in vivo.  The substrate for macrophage nitrogen oxidation metabolism in vitro, L-arginine, was deleted from the diet without ameliorating the urinary nitrate excretion response induced by BCG.  This suggested that L-arginine was synthesized endogenously because there are no other known natural substrates for NOM.  A competitive inhibitor of NOM, the L-arginine analog, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine was fed to mice in their drinking water.  NG-monomethyl-L-arginine ingestion blocked both basal and bacillus Calmette-Guerin-induced urinary nitrate excretion over a 2-4 week time span.  These experimental conditions should prove useful for further investigation on the role of macrophage NOM in host defense against intracellular microorganisms.
Exacerbation of bacterial toxicity to infant ferrets by influenza virus: possible role in sudden infant death syndrome [published erratum appears in J Infect Dis 1991 Jul;164(1):232]  Of several toxins examined, only staphylococcal alpha and gamma toxin, endotoxin, and diphtheria toxins were lethal for 5-day-old ferrets.  Their toxicities were enhanced in animals infected at 1 day old with influenza virus, from 3-fold with staphylococcal gamma toxin through 14-fold for staphylococcal alpha toxin, 84-fold for endotoxin, and 219-fold for diphtheria toxin.  No increased viral replication occurred in any tissue; thus the effects of the toxins were exacerbated by the infection, not vice versa.  Neonates died suddenly without clinical symptoms as in human babies dying from the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).  Pathologic examination showed inflammation in the upper respiratory tract, lung edema and collapse, and early bronchopneumonia in the toxin- and influenza virus-treated animals but not in those treated with toxin or virus alone.  Thus, bacterial toxins could play a role in SIDS, this being more likely with a concomitant influenza virus infection.
Evaluation of the Gram stain as a screening tool for maternal carriage of group B beta-hemolytic streptococci. The Vaginal Infections and Prematurity Study Group.  To determine the usefulness of the vaginal Gram stain as a screen for maternal group B streptococcal carriage, we compared the presence of gram-positive cocci on Gram stain with a cervicovaginal culture in 7755 women at 23-26 weeks' gestation and in 1452 women at delivery.  Group B streptococci were isolated from 18.4% of women at 23-26 weeks and 14.9% of women at delivery.  The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of the Gram stain were 28, 69, 17, and 81%, respectively, in mid-gestation and 34, 72, 18, and 86%, respectively, at delivery.  The presence of gram-positive cocci on Gram stain was strongly associated with the isolation of Gardnerella vaginalis and with the presence of bacterial vaginosis.  We conclude that most gram-positive cocci seen on Gram stain are probably anaerobes or micrococci and that the vaginal Gram stain is neither sensitive nor specific enough to be of use as a tool in the diagnosis of maternal group B streptococcal carriage.
Reliability of the bronchoscopic protected catheter brush in the diagnosis of pneumonia in mechanically ventilated patients.  OBJECTIVE: To assess the usefulness of the telescoping plugged catheter in the diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia.  DESIGN: Prospective study.  PATIENTS: A total of 103 ventilated patients with suspected pneumonia were prospectively studied over 20 months.  RESULTS: The quantitative cultures of the protected brush specimen detected pulmonary bacterial infection (greater than 10(3) cfu/mL) in 49 (47.5%) patients.  Subsequent follow-up confirmed pneumonia in 41 patients; in only one patient was a positive protected brush specimen culture established as a false-positive result.  There were 54 patients with less than 10(3) cfu/mL and the diagnosis was excluded in 36 of them.  We identified eight patients with false-negative protected brush specimen cultures.  The results obtained by this technique allowed us to modify treatment in 49 (47.5%) patients.  CONCLUSIONS: The telescoping plugged catheter demonstrated significant bacterial infection in a relatively small proportion of patients in whom bacterial lung infection was suspected.  This technique can be safely performed and is a sensitive and specific method to establish the cause of pneumonia, thus allowing specific treatment and the avoidance of inappropriate antibiotic therapy.
Use of the Pediatric Risk of Mortality score to predict nosocomial infection in a pediatric intensive care unit.  OBJECTIVE: To define infection rates in patients with Pediatric Risk of Mortality (PRISM) scores greater than and less than 10 on admission to the pediatric ICU (PICU).  DESIGN: Descriptive.  SETTING: An 18-bed PICU admitting patients of all ages except nonsurgical neonates; within a 585-bed tertiary care pediatric hospital.  PATIENTS: Patients admitted to the PICU from July 1987 to February 1988 inclusive.  Of 685 admitted, 480 were followed for greater than or equal to 72 hr.  METHODS: The baseline state of the patients on admission was determined by a designated intensivist using the PRISM score.  Other variables included age, length of stay, and hospital day of onset of infection.  Infections were identified by a designated intensivist who undertook prospective daily bedside observation, chart, radiographic, and laboratory review.  MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Equal portions of patients had PRISM scores less than and greater than 10.  Significantly more infections occurred in the high PRISM population (10.8% vs.  3.4%, p less than .001).  This association held through age, service, and length of stay.  Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of a PRISM score greater than 10 were 75%, 53%, 11%, and 97%, respectively.  Bacteremias accounted for 36% of infections, skin/eye/drain site 22%, respiratory 16%, wound 15%, and urine 9%.  The most prevalent organisms were coagulase-negative staphylococci (32%), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (23%), Candida sp.  (20%), and S.  aureus (9%).  CONCLUSIONS: A PRISM score greater than 10 on PICU admission characterizes a population within the PICU at increased risk of infection.  However, 93% of patients did not develop infection and thus, a negative predictive value of 97% yields little additional information.
Hepatic injury associated with small bowel bacterial overgrowth in rats is prevented by metronidazole and tetracycline.  Susceptible rat strains develop hepatobiliary injury following the surgical creation of self-filling blind loops that cause small bowel bacterial overgrowth.  Luminal bacteria or their cell wall polymers were implicated in the pathogenesis of the lesions because sham-operated rats and rats with self-emptying blind loops, having only slightly increased bacterial counts, did not develop hepatic injury.  In this study, antibiotics with different spectra of activities were continuously administered starting 1 day or 22 days after surgery to determine which intestinal flora may be responsible for the development of hepatic injury in rats with small bowel bacterial overgrowth.  Four weeks following surgery, Lewis rats with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics had elevated liver histology scores (8.2 +/- 1.3 vs.  0.7 +/- 0.4) and plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels (269 +/- 171 vs.  84 +/- 24) compared with sham-operated rats, P less than 0.001.  Oral gentamicin as well as oral and intraperitoneal polymyxin B, which binds endotoxin, did not prevent hepatic injury in rats with self-filling blind loops.  However, oral metronidazole and tetracycline therapy continuously administered beginning 1 day after surgery diminished hepatic injury (histology score 3.0 +/- 1.8, 2.9 +/- 1.1; aspartate aminotransferase 87 +/- 25, 98 +/- 34; respectively P less than 0.001 compared with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics).  Metronidazole also protected Wistar rats that require 12 weeks to develop hepatic injury following experimentally induced small bowel bacterial overgrowth compared with rats with self-filling blind loops that received no antibiotic treatment (histology score 10.4 +/- 1.3 vs.  0.7 +/- 1.1, and aspartate aminotransferase 273 +/- 239 vs.  76 +/- 20, P less than 0.001).  When rats started metronidazole therapy 22 days after self-filling blind loop surgery, elevated aspartate aminotransferase values decreased to normal during the next 77 days and final histology scores were normal.  All rats with self-filling blind loops had negative peritoneal, liver, spleen, and blood cultures but approximately 75% of mesenteric lymph node cultures were positive irrespective of antibiotic treatment.  Because Bacteroides species have been implicated in causing vitamin B12 and disaccharidase deficiencies in rats with self-filling blind loops, we documented the presence or absence of these organisms from blind loops using selective culture techniques.  Metronidazole and tetracycline eliminated Bacteroides sp.  from blind loops, but polymyxin B and gentamicin did not.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS).
Organ hypertrophy and responses of colon microbial populations of growing swine to high dietary protein.  Thirty-two castrated male crossbred growing pigs (average initial wt 26.9 kg) were used to determine the effect of a high level of dietary protein (37%) compared with a normal level of protein (15%) on enterobacteria and Campylobacter sp.  inhabitation in the large intestine and on visceral organ hypertrophy and the interrelationships between these two factors.  Pigs were kept in pairs (eight pens of two pigs/diet) and fed their respective diets and libitum.  Eight pigs (two pens of two pigs fed each diet) were killed at wk 4, 8, 12 and 16 without fasting.  Fecal samples were obtained every 2 wk from animals scheduled for necropsy at 16 wk, and colon contents were obtained from all pigs at necropsy; samples were enumerated individually for enterobacteria and Campylobacter sp.  Weights of heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, perirenal fat and empty stomach, small intestine and large intestine were recorded at necropsy.  Stomach, cecum and proximal colon were sectioned for histopathologic examination.  Daily body weight gain was depressed by high dietary protein, but liver and kidneys were heavier in the high protein group than in controls at each time interval.  Mild lymphoid hyperplasia of Peyer's patches in the small intestine in some pigs in both groups was indicative of antigenic stimulation but not of pathologic significance.  There was no effect of diet on counts of enterobacteria or Campylobacter sp.  in feces or colon contents during the 16-wk experiment.  We conclude that the hypertrophic response of the tissues of growing pigs to high dietary protein is not the result of the presence of Campylobacter sp.  or enterobacteria in the colon contents.
In vitro inhibition of esterase activity in amniotic fluid: comparison with bacterial cultures.  Assessment of leukocyte esterase activity in amniotic fluid for the rapid and reliable diagnosis of chorioamnionitis has been demonstrated previously.  We compared in vitro inhibition of esterase activity in amniotic fluid with bacterial cultures to identify the origins of the specific esterases released by the infecting organisms.  One hundred forty-one samples were tested (90 uninfected, 51 infected).  Each sample was evaluated for Gram stain, cultures, and an in vitro esterase assay followed by ebelactone inhibition.  Forty-two patients had positive amniotic fluid cultures.  Ebelactone produced varying degrees of inhibition of esterase activity (range, 20% to 60%) in the uninfected samples and in those infected with gram-negative organisms.  There was no inhibition in the samples infected with gram-positive organisms.  Thus different groups of bacteria may elicit the production of different and specific esterases in infected amniotic fluid, as shown by the differences in in vitro inhibition.
Transarticular fixation for severely displaced supracondylar fractures in children.  We have reviewed 34 children who had been treated by open reduction through a medial incision and transarticular pinning for a severely displaced supracondylar fracture of the humerus.  Follow-up ranging from nine months to 20 years showed that 27 of 34 elbows (79%) had excellent or good results, with satisfactory resolution of neurovascular problems and no complications due to the method of treatment.
Person-to-person transmission of Brucella melitensis   Human brucellosis is primarily an occupational hazard in the USA; in the Middle East and Africa ingestion of contaminated dairy products is an important route of infection.  Whether human beings can become infected via person-to-person spread is uncertain.  During an investigation of a commonsource, laboratory-associated outbreak due to Brucella melitensis, biotype 3, the wife of a microbiologist with serologically proven brucellosis became infected.  Her blood isolate was indistinguishable from the epidemic strain.  In the absence of other risk factors, we suggest that sexual intercourse is a possible means of transmission.
Gonococcal osteomyelitis. Case report and review of the literature.  We report the 11th case of gonococcal osteomyelitis in the postantibiotic era.  This case demonstrates the classic presentation of osteomyelitis associated with gonorrhea, a subacute illness with minimal systemic symptoms.  In addition, we present radiologic evidence of the pathogenesis of this unusual osteomyelitis from a contiguous joint infection.
Campylobacter fetus infection of abdominal aortic aneurysm.  A 61-year-old man with Campylobacter fetus infection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm treated surgically is presented herein, the fifth survival case reported in the literature.  Fever and back pain preceded the enlargement of atherosclerotic abdominal aortic aneurysm.  The patient tolerated satisfactorily total excision of the aneurysm followed by axillo-femoral prosthetic bypass.  Antibiotic therapy consisted of intravenous infusion of fosfomycin and gentamicin and oral administration of minocycline.  The organism cultured from the aneurysmal wall and intraluminal thrombi was identified as Campylobacter fetus from its typical characteristics.  It is concluded that this organism should be considered in all cases of infected aneurysm in elderly or debilitated patients.
Delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis.  We reviewed 19 cases of delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis in which diagnostic cultures were performed at one month or more after cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation.  We isolated four different organisms in these 19 cases: 12 Propionibacterium species (63%), three Candida parapsilosis (16%), three Staphylococcus epidermidis (16%), and one Corynebacterium species (5%).  Because of the unusual delayed-onset features of these cases and the retrospective nature of this study, a variety of treatment regimens were used.  Twelve patients had recurrence of marked inflammation despite an apparent initial cure, and ten of these patients had positive culture results on repeat examination of intraocular fluids.  Nine patients continued to be treated with topical corticosteroids postoperatively to suppress low-grade inflammation.  Of the 19 patients, 16 had final visual acuity of 20/400 or better.  Delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis had a more favorable visual prognosis, compared to acute-onset endophthalmitis.
Local infectious complications following large joint replacement in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate versus those not treated with methotrexate.  We performed a 10-year retrospective analysis of the frequency of local postoperative infectious complications in methotrexate (MTX)-treated rheumatoid arthritis patients who underwent total joint arthroplasty.  Sixty patients, who had a total of 92 joint arthroplasties, were receiving MTX.  A comparison group of 61 patients with a combined total of 110 total joint arthroplasties were not receiving MTX.  The 2 groups were compared for the occurrence of local postoperative infectious complications and poor wound healing.  Eight patients in the MTX group experienced a total of 8 complications (8.7% of procedures).  In comparison, 5 patients in the non-MTX group experienced a total of 6 complications (5.5% of procedures), a difference that was not statistically significant (chi 2 = 0.816, P = 0.366).  Statistical analysis of many other variables revealed none that could be identified as risk factors for postoperative complications.  These results suggest that treatment in the perioperative period with weekly low-dose pulse MTX does not increase the risk of local postoperative infectious complications or poor wound healing in rheumatoid arthritis patients who undergo total joint arthroplasty.
Ureteric catheterization in the diagnosis of pyelonephritis--an experimental evaluation.  Experimental models of renal infections have been used to determine the accuracy with which the cellular and microbiologic components of ureteric and voided urine reflected the pathologic status of the kidney in pyelonephritis.  In acute pyelonephritis, the composition of the ureteric urine reflected the pathologic status of the kidney, although in a few cases ureteric samples were either sterile or cell free.  Animals with chronic pyelonephritis in which the lesions were either infected or sterile commonly had sterile ureteric urine.  Pyuria, however, was demonstrable in both these situations.  In subclinical pyelonephritis, ureteric samples from infected kidneys were variably culture positive, although pyuria was a common observation.  Discriminate function analysis based on actual renal status and ureteric data gave an overall correct classification rate of 67% and demonstrated at least 80% agreement in four of the five classification groups.
Miliary tuberculosis presenting as hepatic and renal failure.  A 67-year-old man developed hepatic and renal failure over a six-day period.  Despite full supportive measures, he died on his 11th day of hospitalization with fulminant DIC and hepatic, renal, and respiratory failure.  Postmortem examination revealed acid-fast bacilli in virtually all organ systems.  Miliary tuberculosis should be considered as a potentially treatable cause of hepatic failure.
Spontaneous abortion.  Spontaneous abortion, or the early termination of pregnancy without outside interference, may be caused by fetal, maternal or external factors.  In many cases, a specific etiology may never be identified.  A variety of clinical presentations are possible, ranging from imperceptible loss to profound life-threatening shock.  Physicians should be able to diagnose and manage the six recognized types of spontaneous abortion: threatened, inevitable, incomplete, complete, missed and septic.  In all cases, uterine evacuation, avoidance of complications and psychologic support of the family are important.  The prognosis for a subsequent successful pregnancy is good, except in cases of habitual abortion.
Bacterial or viral meningitis? Measuring lactate in CSF can help you know quickly.  Measurement of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lactate is a useful test when properly applied to the appropriate clinical situation and can offer information other CSF parameters cannot provide.  Except for Gram's stain of CSF, lactate level is the most important CSF parameter in the early differentiation of viral (aseptic) and bacterial purulent meningitis.
Gonococcal endocarditis: twenty-five year experience.  Gonococcal endocarditis is a devastating albeit rare complication of disseminated gonorrhea.  It virtually disappeared as a disease entity with the advent of antibiotic therapy.  Recently, it has reappeared with surprisingly high frequency for unclear reasons.  Since 1983, the authors have observed six episodes of this disease in five patients, the largest series reported to date.  It is predominantly a disease of young people without underlying valvular heart disease.  Characteristic clinical features include a high frequency of congestive heart failure and nephritis and a proclivity for aortic valve involvement, commonly with associated ring abscess, and large vegetations.  Genitourinary symptoms, arthralgias, and rash are uncommon.  Previously undescribed features include involvement of all four valves simultaneously, recurrence on an aortic valve prosthesis, and a high frequency of terminal complement deficiencies.  Precipitous hemodynamic deterioration despite appropriate therapy is not uncommon, and overall mortality rate remains an alarming 19%.
Bacterial translocation from the gut impairs systemic immunity.  The goal of this study was to determine the influence of bacterial translocation on systemic immunity, since bacteria and their products play a major role in the development and maintenance of the host's immune system.  To test this hypothesis, we measured the blastogenic response of mononuclear cells harvested from the blood, spleen, Peyer's patches, and mesenteric lymph nodes of control and Escherichia coli C25 monoassociated mice to a battery of mitogens.  The E.  coli C25 monoassociation model was used because this bacterial translocation model is not associated with experimental manipulations that are likely to affect the systemic immune system.  The mitogenic response of lymphocytes isolated from the E.  coli C25 monoassociated mice was significantly depressed compared to the control groups (p less than 0.01).  Since the biologic significance of depressed in vitro mitogen responsiveness is difficult to determine, we assessed the ability of the mice to control a bacterial challenge using an in vivo Staphylococcus aureus abscess model.  It appears that the observed changes in mitogen responsiveness may be of biologic significance, since the ability of the E.  coli C25 monoassociated mice to control the injected S.  aureus was impaired (p less than 0.01).  These results suggest that an association exists between bacterial translocation and decreased systemic immune responsiveness.
Colonic histoplasmosis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Report of two cases.  Colonic histoplasmosis is a rare entity.  There have been four previous reported cases within the population of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.  Because of the increasing incidence of HIV infection within regions where histoplasmosis is endemic, this condition may become more common.  Gastrointestinal histoplasmosis has protean clinical manifestations, and symptoms are often nonspecific.  Any patient with HIV infection who has unexplained GI symptoms should undergo evaluation for possible histoplasmosis.  Aggressive long-term amphotericin B therapy has been effective in HIV patients with histoplasmosis.  Resection or diversion of symptomatic colonic strictures caused by histoplasmosis may be necessary in addition to medical therapy.
Staphylococcus aureus infection of human endothelial cells potentiates Fc receptor expression.  Vasculitis, a recognized complication of staphylococcal-endovascular infections, may result in part, from the expression of FcR by Staphylococcus aureus-infected endothelial cells.  FcR were measured using [51]Cr labeled SRBC preincubated with rabbit anti-SRBC IgG.  FcR were not detected on uninfected endothelial cells, but were demonstrated on S.  aureus infected cells using IgG, but not IgM labeled SRBC.  FcR expression was dependent on the initial bacterial density (greater than or equal to 8 x 10(7) cfu/ml) and on phagocytosis of the staphylococci, but not on new protein synthesis.  IgG labeled SRBC binding was blocked by aggregated IgG but not IgM.  SRBC coated with the F(ab')2 portion of IgG did not bind, thus confirming that FcR were specifically involved in this interaction.  FcR are expressed after S.  aureus invasion of human endothelial cells and may contribute to the vasculitis which often accompanies S.  aureus-endovascular infections.
Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis: the first 50 cases.  Over the last 35 years, 50 cases of extrapulmonary infection with Pneumocystis carinii have been reported in the literature throughout the world.  Use of prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine may have facilitated the relative prevalence of extrapulmonary disease because of its inadequate systemic distribution.  An increase in reported cases of infections due to P.  carinii has been seen in conjunction with AIDS, but extrapulmonary pneumocystosis represents less than 1% of all cases of infection with P.  carinii.  Several organs or tissues may be involved, but the most common sites are lymph nodes, spleen, liver, and bone marrow.  Extrapulmonary spread of P.  carinii infection occurs via both lymphatic and hematogenous routes.  While all patients with disseminated forms of this infection die rapidly, survival for patients with AIDS is possible if systemic treatment is provided, if a single extrapulmonary site is involved, and if no concomitant pneumonia is present.  Because of the increasing frequency of this condition in patients who do not have pneumonia due to P.  carinii, extrapulmonary pneumocystosis should be included among the AIDS-defining criteria.
Successful antepartum treatment of listeriosis.  A pregnant patient had a flulike illness at 27 weeks.  Listeria monocytogenes infection was diagnosed by blood cultures.  Electronic monitoring suggested the fetus was stressed.  Use of tocolytics inhibited uterine contractions while the mother was treated with intravenous ampicillin.  Four days later when labor began because of chorioamnionitis, the infant was delivered in good condition.
Randomized comparison of ceftriaxone and cefotaxime in Lyme neuroborreliosis.  In this prospective, randomized, open trial, 33 patients with Lyme neuroborreliosis were assigned to a 10-day treatment with either ceftriaxone, 2 g intravenously (iv) every 24 h (n = 17), or cefotaxime, 2 g iv every 8 h (n = 16).  Of the 33 patients, 30 were eligible for analysis of therapeutic efficacy.  Neurologic symptoms improved or even subsided in 14 patients of the cefotaxime group and in 12 patients of the ceftriaxone group during the treatment period.  At follow-up examinations after a mean of 8.1 months, 17 of 27 patients examined were clinically asymptomatic.  In one patient Borrelia burgdorferi was isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 7.5 months after ceftriaxone therapy.  CSF antibiotic concentrations were above the MIC 90 level for B.  burgdorferi in nearly all patients examined.  Patients with Lyme neuroborreliosis may benefit from a 10-day treatment with ceftriaxone or cefotaxime.  However, as 10 patients were symptomatic at follow-up and borreliae persisted in the CSF of one patient, a prolongation of therapy may be necessary.
Antimicrobial resistance of pneumococci in children with acute lower respiratory tract infection in Pakistan   87 strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae isolated during three winter seasons (1986-89) from the blood of children with acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) in Pakistan were serotyped and tested for susceptibility to a range of antimicrobial agents.  97% of isolates were resistant to at least one antimicrobial drug.  62% had decreased susceptibility to co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole) (31% were fully resistant) and 39% were resistant to chloramphenicol.  All isolates were susceptible to erythromycin, cefaclor, cephalothin, ceftriaxone, cefuroxime, rifampicin, vancomycin, and clindamycin.  29% of isolates were neither vaccine types nor vaccine-related types.  Serotype distribution and antimicrobial susceptibility varied significantly during the three winter seasons.  No single serotype was found in all three winters.  The findings highlight the need for surveillance of antimicrobial resistance and serotype distribution of S pneumoniae in developing countries as a guide both to the choice of agent for treatment of pneumococcal infections, especially ALRI, and to the formulation of new pneumococcal conjugate vaccines for use in young children.
Lyme disease: recommendations for diagnosis and treatment   The incidence and the endemic range of Lyme disease in the United States have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in Lyme, Connecticut, in 1975.  Because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods, diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate.  The antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly.  They show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results.  The clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of Lyme disease are reviewed.  The reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness.
Peripheral nerve function in sepsis and multiple organ failure   Forty-three patients who had sepsis and multiple organ failure (critical illness) were studied prospectively to determine the incidence and severity of peripheral nerve function and to correlate such function with a number of variables.  Electrophysiologic studies indicated a primary axonal degeneration of motor and sensory fibers in 30 (70 percent).  Fifteen (30 percent) had the clinical signs of difficulty in weaning from assisted ventilation, weakness of limb muscles, and reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes.  Full recovery from the polyneuropathy occurred among the 23 (53 percent) who survived, except three who had a very severe polyneuropathy.  A peripheral nerve function index, computed from electrophysiologic measurements, showed statistically significant (p less than 0.01) negative correlations with the time in the critical care unit, and the serum glucose value; the serum albumin level showed a positive correlation.  Multiple regression analyses indicated all three factors accounted for 47 percent (r2 = 0.4678) of all potential variables.  In a separate analysis, the nerve function index correlated with the amplitude of the diaphragm compound muscle action potential (p less than 0.01).  The results were consistent with the polyneuropathy being due to the same mechanisms that are currently postulated to cause dysfunction in this syndrome of other organ systems (including the neuromuscular respiratory system).
Early complications in the operative treatment of ankle fractures. Influence of delay before operation.  We have reviewed the early complications of 121 surgically treated closed ankle fractures; the complication rate was 30%, with 14 major and 22 minor complications.  Fractures with skin blisters or abrasions had more than double the overall complication rate.  Fracture-dislocations had three times as many major complications as simple fractures, and those not fixed within 24 hours had a 44% major complication rate compared to 5.3% in those operated upon as emergencies.  Patients transferred from another medical facility had high complication rates, especially if they had fracture-dislocations.  We conclude that operative treatment of ankle fractures must be delivered in a timely fashion, especially in severe fractures.  We would caution against the practice of transferring patients with serious ankle fractures before completion of definitive care.
Issues in cerebrospinal fluid management. Acid-fast bacillus smear and culture.  Meningeal tuberculosis is an uncommon disease in the United States with an annual incidence of fewer than 200 cases.  This study evaluates three approaches to improving the use of the cerebrospinal (CSF) acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear and culture procedure: (1) education alone; (2) optional screening by which physicians can select to have the AFB analysis stopped if the initial CSF findings are unremarkable; and (3) mandatory screening before the performance of all CSF AFB analyses.  With education alone, the CSF AFB culture rate decreased from 20.6% of all CSF acquisitions to 15.7% (P less than 0.001); however, the effect may have been related to a decrease in all types of AFB testing.  Optional screening had no impact on the AFB testing rate.  Mandatory screening significantly decreased the CSF AFB rate to 6.7% (P less than 0.001), unrelated to changes in other types of AFB testing.  Laboratories that employ mandatory screening should report the screening results immediately and have a mechanism whereby physicians can bypass the screen, providing CSF AFB analysis on unremarkable fluid from high-risk patients.
Diagnosis of Lyme disease based on dermatologic manifestations.  Lyme disease, or Lyme borreliosis, is an infection caused by the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi, which is most commonly transmitted to humans by a tick bite.  Characterized by early and late phases, Lyme disease is a multisystem illness involving the skin, heart, joints, and nervous system.  Diagnosis is based predominantly on clinical manifestations, the most specific being dermatologic.  Thus, recognizing the dermatologic manifestations of Lyme disease is important for diagnosis and institution of appropriate, effective therapy.  Approximately 75% of patients with Lyme disease present with the pathognomonic skin lesion erythema migrans, an expanding erythematous lesion.  During early infection, secondary erythema migrans lesions or Borrelia lymphocytoma may occur.  Borrelia lymphocytoma commonly presents as an erythematous nodule on the ear lobe or nipple.  During late infection, acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans, an erythematous, atrophic plaque unique to Lyme disease may appear; it has been described in about 10% of patients with Lyme disease in Europe.  Fibrotic nodules associated with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans as well as other sclerotic and atrophic lesions, such as morphea, lichen sclerosus et atrophicus, anetoderma, and atrophoderma of Pasini and Pierini, have been seen late in the course of Lyme disease.  In a few cases, other sclerodermatous lesions, such as eosinophilic fasciitis and progressive facial hemiatrophy, have been linked to B.  burgdorferi infection.  We review the cutaneous lesions associated with Lyme disease.
Infection with HIV as a risk factor for adverse obstetrical outcome.  We carried out a case-control study to investigate the role of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including infection with HIV, as risk factors for adverse outcome of pregnancy.  Overall, 1507 women were enrolled within 24 h of delivery.  Cases (n = 796) were mothers of low-birthweight infants (less than 2500 g) or of stillborns.  Low-birthweight infants were divided into preterms (n = 373) and neonates small for gestational age (n = 234).  Stillborns were separated into intrauterine fetal deaths (n = 120), and intrapartum fetal deaths (n = 69).  Controls were selected from mothers delivering a live baby of greater than or equal to 2500 g (n = 711).  The maternal HIV seroprevalence in the control group was 3.1%.  Prematurity was associated with maternal HIV antibody [8.6% seropositive; adjusted odds ratio (OR) 2.1; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1-4.0], as was being born small for gestational age (7.7% seropositive; adjusted OR 2.3; 95% CI 1.2-4.2).  In mothers who delivered a stillborn baby, both intrauterine fetal death (11.7% seropositive; adjusted OR 2.7; 95% CI 1.3-5.5) and intrapartum fetal death (11.6% seropositive; adjusted OR 2.9; 95% CI 1.3-6.5) were independently associated with HIV seropositivity in the mother.  Maternal syphilis was confirmed as an important risk factor for intrauterine fetal death (14.3% positive; adjusted OR 4.8; 95% CI 2.4-9.5).  No significant association was found between other STDs, including gonococcal and chlamydial infection, and adverse obstetrical outcome.  These results suggest an association between maternal HIV infection and adverse obstetrical outcome, defined as low birthweight and stillbirth.
Cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients with septic encephalopathy.  Cerebral circulation and metabolism in septic encephalopathy have not been well documented.  The authors measured cerebral blood flow (CBF) and metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2) in six patients with septic encephalopathy associated with multiple organ failure (three to five organs).  They found that CBF and CMRO2 were significantly lower than awake control values of 46 +/- 2 to 28 +/- 3 mL/100g/min (mean +/- SEM) and 3.1 +/- 0.2 to 1.2 +/- 0.2 mL/100g/min, respectively.  Cerebral vascular resistance (CVR) and cerebral circulatory index (CCI:CBF/CMRO2) were significantly higher than the control values of 2.0 +/- 0.1 to 3.0 +/- 0.4 mm Hg/mL/100g/min and 15.1 +/- 0.8 to 24.2 +/- 3.3, respectively.  At the time of cerebral circulatory and metabolic measurements, their consciousness varied between 4 and 10 as evaluated by the Glasgow coma scale.  The electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow wave activity and the latency of the auditory brain stem evoked response was prolonged in four of six patients.  Computed brain tomography showed either no abnormality or mild atrophy.  It is concluded that CBF and CMRO2 are disproportionally decreased during septic encephalopathy in association with dysfunction of the CNS and decreased electrical activity.
Role of granulocyte elastase in tissue injury in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure.  To better understand the role of granulocyte elastase (GE) in mediating tissue injury during sepsis, GE levels were measured in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) in patients with septic shock (n = 16) and hemorrhagic shock (n = 30).  Granulocyte elastase levels were compared to levels of alpha 1-protease inhibitor (alpha 1-PI).  Results show that although plasma GE-alpha 1-PI complex was initially elevated in patients with hemorrhagic and septic shock, elevations in plasma GE-alpha 1-PI complex (831 +/- 241 micrograms/L) persisted in septic shock patients.  alpha 1-Protease inhibitor levels in serum were increased, resulting in an inhibition of serum GE activity.  Granulocyte elastase activity in BALF, however, was significantly higher in those patients with septic, as compared to hemorrhagic shock (31.4 +/- 25.8 versus 3.7 +/- 4.0 U/L, respectively).  In addition GE levels were compared to other parameters, including respiratory index, blood neutrophil count, and plasma levels of endotoxin, fibronectin, and coagulation factor XIII.  Significant correlations were observed between GE-alpha 1-PI and increased endotoxin concentration and decreased fibronectin and coagulation factor XIII levels.  Significant correlation was found also between GE activity in BALF and respiratory index.  These findings suggest that severe tissue damage occurred in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure.  Although GE activity appeared to be adequately inhibited by alpha 1-PI in blood, increased GE activity in local tissues, such as lung alveoli, may be responsible for significant local tissue injury during septic shock.
A cross-sectional study of a program for HIV infection control among public house workers.  We report results of a cross-sectional study of a program for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection control among public house workers in Dar es Salaam.  Forty percent of the 605 workers sampled had been part of this program, which included behavioral counseling and provision of condoms, for 1 year.  The remaining 60% were new recruits.  Program participation was associated with both enhanced condom use (p less than 0.001) and behavioral modification (p less than 0.001).  Females, and specifically barmaids, were more likely to be condom users but were less likely to have changed their behavior in other respects.  Seropositivity to both HIV and Treponema pallidum tended to be higher among females, especially the barmaids.  Since barmaids and waitresses in public houses in Dar es Salaam often engage in prostitution, it is felt that to effect a reduction of numbers of their sexual partners, there is a need to address the social and economic factors underlying high-risk sexual behavior.
Antibiotics and infectious diseases.  Selection of antibiotics in clinical practice has become increasingly complex because more patients have underlying predispositions to infection, a greater variety of microorganisms with varying antibiotic resistance patterns cause these infections, and more antibiotics are available to treat these pathogens.  A practical approach to antibiotic decision-making involves comparing the advantages and disadvantages of each group of antibiotics available while remembering the patient population being treated and the common pathogens encountered in one's practice.  It is helpful to study the penicillin derivatives in approximately chronologic order of development and the cephalosporins in terms of generations because this puts the use of each individual agent in perspective.  Familiarity with commonly encountered adverse antibiotic reactions, dosage guidelines, and special situations (pregnancy, pediatric patients) will help avoid problems associated with antibiotic use.  Finally, having one or more useful references at hand will aid in resolving questions about antibiotic use.
Fluconazole: a new triazole antifungal agent.  Fluconazole is a fluorine-substituted, bis-triazole antifungal agent.  Its mechanism of action, like that of other azoles, involves interruption of the conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol via binding to fungal cytochrome P-450 and subsequent disruption of fungal membranes.  Activity against Aspergillus spp., Blastomyces dermatitidis, Candida spp., Coccidioides immitis, Cryptococcus neoformans, Histoplasma capsulatum, and Paracoccidioides brasiliensis has been demonstrated in several animal models.  Fluconazole can be administered both orally and intravenously.  Mean peak serum concentrations achieved in human volunteers after 50 and 100 mg (oral) are 3.1 and 7.0 mumols/L respectively.  Protein binding is low (11 percent) and cerebrospinal fluid to serum ratio is 0.58 to 0.89.  Serum half-life is long (22-32 hours) and elimination is via renal clearance of unchanged drug.  Clinical trials and reports support the use of fluconazole in treatment of candidiasis, particularly oropharyngeal and esophageal infections in immunocompromised hosts.  Fluconazole is also approved for initial and suppressive therapy of cryptococcal meningitis.  Its role in management of systemic fungal infections will be further defined once results of other comparative trials become available.  Fluconazole is well tolerated and its effects on steroidogenesis are markedly less than those of ketoconazole.  Antipyrine clearance is not altered at low doses (50 mg) of fluconazole; however, drug interactions with the use of larger doses can be anticipated with agents such as cyclosporin, phenytoin, oral hypoglycemics, and warfarin.  Rifampin appears to decrease metabolic clearance of fluconazole.  Fluconazole is available as oral and parenteral formulations.  Once-daily doses of 100-400 mg are recommended.  Dosage reduction is advised for patients with impaired renal function.
Host defense mechanisms in the pathogenesis of urinary tract infection.  Certain microorganisms have a propensity for causing urinary tract infection, and the route (either ascending or hematogenous) by which microorganisms contaminate the urinary tract from external sources is frequently characteristic of the microorganism.  There are local defense mechanisms both in the urine and at each anatomic site in the urinary tract (urethra, bladder, ureter, and kidney).  The defense mechanisms at one site may have opposing effects on microbial growth at other sites in the urinary tract.  The outcome following entrance of microorganisms into the urinary tract is a result of competing forces, which consist of these local urinary defense mechanisms, the initial numbers of microorganisms contaminating the urinary tract, and microbial virulence factors.
Plasma terminal complement complexes in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis.  In most instances of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (APSGN), activation of the complement system occurs, as reflected by decreased levels of the complement proteins C3, C5, and properdin (P).  Recent studies implicate terminal complement complexes (TCC) in the pathogenesis of glomerular injury.  The fluid phase TCC, SC5b-9, reflects the formation of membrane-bound C5b-9 and has been used as a clinical marker in various diseases.  Plasma concentrations of SC5b-9 were measured with an enzyme immunoassay using a monoclonal antibody to a neoantigen expressed on the SC5b-9 complex in 13 children who presented with clinical and pathologic features of APSGN.  SC5b-9 was significantly elevated in all plasmas obtained within 30 days after onset of clinical glomerulonephritis.  Concentrations of SC5b-9 in acute plasmas were significantly higher than those of paired convalescent samples.  For individual patients, as SC5b-9 concentration returned to normal there was a coincident decrease in serum creatinine concentration and urinary protein excretion, signifying clinical improvement in glomerulonephritis.  Thus, TCC generation commonly occurs in the early stages of APSGN and may be of importance in the pathogenesis of the condition.
Colonoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology in the diagnosis of ileocecal tuberculosis.  Two cases of ileocecal tuberculosis are presented.  The diagnosis was achieved by endoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC), while endoscopic biopsies and brush cytology were negative.  The usefulness of endoscopic FNAC in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal tract tuberculosis is highlighted.
Adenine nucleotide changes in kidney, liver, and small intestine during different forms of ischemic injury.  The purpose of this study was to better characterize renal adenine nucleotide pool responses to different forms of shock, contrast the changes to those found in other intra-abdominal organs (the liver and small intestine), and assess whether these changes are closely mimicked by those produced by renal arterial occlusion, the usual method used to study ischemic acute renal failure.  Rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock, septic shock, or cardiopulmonary shock of varying severities and durations.  The liver consistently had the greatest energy depletion, followed by the kidney, and then the small intestine.  However, only the kidney developed clear morphological damage (S3 brush border sloughing).  Kidney adenylate pools were better preserved during septic shock and cardiopulmonary shock than during hemorrhagic shock despite comparable blood pressures.  Only profound hemorrhagic shock (35-40 mm Hg for 25 minutes) decreased total adenylate pools (ATP + ADP + AMP).  However, the degree of renal catabolite (nucleosides plus purine base) accumulation did not correlate with the amount of renal total adenine nucleotide depletion, partially because circulating catabolites contributed to intrarenal catabolite pools.  Purine base/uric acid ratios differed among shocked organs, consistent with different degrees of xanthine oxidase activity (small intestine greater than liver greater than kidney).  Renal morphological damage decreased during the immediate (0-30 minutes) postshock period, and the extent of this improvement was not altered by xanthine oxidase inhibition (oxypurinol), suggesting that the immediate postshock period is not one of serious oxidative injury.  Shock, in comparison with renal arterial occlusion, caused only modest ATP loss/catabolite accumulation, very low purine base/uric acid ratios, and no immediate-reperfusion (0-30 minutes) resynthesis of the total adenylate pool.  Thus, ischemia-induced renal adenylate changes may differ considerably, depending on the nature of the ischemic event.
Clinical outcome of seriously ill surgical patients with intra-abdominal infection depends on both physiologic (APACHE II score) and immunologic (DTH score) alterations.  The delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response and the APACHE II score in 118 patients with surgical infections were measured prospectively and related to outcome.  Logistic regression analysis generated the equation: [formula: see text].  The risk assessment as calculated by this model was compared to that using the APACHE II system alone in a separate group of 354 patients.  There was an improvement in the predictive capacity of the APACHE II + DTH equation compared to APACHE II alone, as shown by a better fit of expected and observed deaths, an improved Goodman-Kruskal G statistic, and a larger area under the receiver operating characteristic curve.  It is concluded that the DTH response (a broad marker of immunocompetence) is an independent prognostic factor in surgical patients and can be used in combination with the APACHE II score (a measure of acute physiology) to estimate better the outcome of surgical patients.
Initial results with slightly modified Kock pouch.  My initial experience with 20 patients undergoing Kock pouch continent urinary diversion is reviewed.  The procedure has been slightly modified from that described by Kock and Skinner.  All patients have been followed for at least four months (median, 33 months).  There have been no early complications related to the pouch.  The most significant problem, incontinence, has occurred in 2 patients (10%) at three and four months, respectively, after surgery.  Only 1 of these patients required temporary use of an external appliance.  Leakage was due, in both cases, to a patulous efferent nipple valve.  Both were repaired by plication of the nipple, and no new efferent limbs were constructed.  In 1 patient (5%) prolapse of the afferent limb associated with reflux and pyelonephritis developed one year post-surgery.  Stones have developed in 3 patients (15%).  All patients are currently continent and stone-free, and all are pleased with the result.
Rabbit skeletal muscle PO2 during hypodynamic sepsis.  We measured skeletal muscle tissue PO2 (PtO2) in anesthetized rabbits (n = 7) following infusion of an intravenous bolus of E coli endotoxin.  An array of surface PO2 microelectrodes was placed over the hindlimb biceps femoris muscle and sufficient readings were obtained to construct a PtO2 histogram.  Changes in the histogram standard deviation were used to characterize micro-circulatory maldistribution.  Systemic O2 consumption (VO2) was measured by the expired gas method.  Cardiac output (Q) and systemic O2 transport (TO2) were calculated.  Samples of arterial, right atrial (ra), and hindlimb venous blood, from a catheter placed in the infrarenal portion of the vena cava, were simultaneously obtained for measurement of blood gases and saturations.  Following the administration of endotoxin, there were decreases in Q and TO2 of approximately 50 percent.  The VO2 initially decreased 23 percent, but returned to baseline levels 30 minutes after endotoxin administration.  Systemic O2 extraction ratio (ERO2 = VO2/TO2) increased from 0.32 +/- .03 to 0.54 +/- .07 (p less than 0.01), whereas hindlimb ERO2 increased from 0.42 +/- .03 to 0.60 +/- .02 (p less than 0.01).  The arithmetic mean of the PtO2 histograms decreased after endotoxin infusion (43 +/- 4 to 7 +/- 2 mm Hg; p less than 0.01), but PLO2 remained at baseline levels (35 +/- 2 vs.  33 +/- 2 mm Hg; p = NS).  The standard deviation of the PtO2 histograms remained constant during the experiment.  This finding supports the notion that skeletal muscle microcirculatory heterogeneity does not increase during endotoxin induced hypodynamic sepsis.
Factors affecting outcome in meningococcal infections.  A prognostic score for evaluating meningococcal infections in patients consists of the following five features that indicate a poor prognosis: onset of petechiae within 12 hours of presentation; shock; normal or low peripheral leukocyte count; normal or low erythrocyte sedimentation rate; and absence of meningitis.  Based on our experience and some published data, we suspected that the score may no longer be reliable.  We reviewed the charts of 73 children with meningococcal infection from December 19, 1979 to December 19, 1987 and applied the prognostic score mentioned previously.  Our findings indicate that although a low score is generally associated with a good outcome, a higher score is less predictive of poor outcome than previously suggested.  A rash with petechiae or purpura, the presence of shock, and a normal or low peripheral leukocyte count continue to be predictors of poor outcome.  Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was not evaluated owing to a limited amount of data.  The absence of meningitis did not correlate with a worse outcome in our patients.  Most patients who died had evidence of meningeal involvement at the time of presentation.  Instead, altered mental status at presentation, particularly obtundation or coma, was an ominous sign.  We conclude that absence of meningitis is not a good predictor of outcome, as was previously thought.  Altered mental status at the time of presentation may prove to be a stronger indicator of poor outcome.
Perianal streptococcal cellulitis with penile involvement.  Perianal streptococcal cellulitis is described occurring in a 5-year-old boy.  The condition also involved the penis and presented as a possible case of sexual abuse.  The correct diagnosis was established by culturing beta-haemolytic streptococci group A from the penile and perianal skin.
Outbreak of diarrhoea due to Escherichia coli O111:B4 in schoolchildren and adults: association of Vi antigen-like reactivity.  During six days in November, 1987, 611 pupils (age range 7-19 years) and 39 adults (23-57) at a school complex in southern Finland had diarrhoea due to Escherichia coli O111:B4.  Diarrhoea developed in 137 other household members during the two weeks after the school outbreak.  The source of the organism remains unknown.  The outbreak strains, when incubated at 22 degrees C or exposed to ampicillin, lost the lipopolysaccharide O antigen and began to react with antisera against Salmonella typhi Vi antigen.  The Vi antigen-like reactivity increased the adherence of the organisms to Hep-2 cells.  These results indicate that E coli O111:B4, and possibly other enteropathogenic E coli strains, should be considered in the diagnosis of all diarrhoea cases and not only in infantile diarrhoea.  Expression of Vi antigen in E coli may play a part in virulence by enhancing adherence to the intestinal epithelium.
Infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm in a 25-month-old child.  Infective endocarditis in young children is uncommon, especially where there is no underlying structural heart disease.  While septic embolization in adults occurs in up to 43% of the cases of endocarditis, there is little data on systemic embolization in cases of children.  We present an unusual case of a 25-month-old child with infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm treated by mitral valve replacement and aortoiliac reconstruction.
The diagnostic utility of the antibody-coated bacteria test in intubated patients.  PURPOSE: Pilot study to determine if the presence of antibody-coated bacteria (ACB) in sputum specimens obtained from endotracheal tube suctioning would aid in the diagnosis of lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI).  PATIENTS AND METHODS: All endotracheally intubated and mechanically ventilated patients for a two-month period were recruited for study.  The diagnosis of LRTI was based on a clinical suspicion sufficient enough to start or change antibiotic therapy.  Specimens were obtained by blind endotracheal tube suctioning.  After processing, sputum smears were stained with fluorescein-labelled antibody to the Fc portion of IgG, IgM, and IgA.  More than five fluorescein-labelled bacteria per oil immersion field were considered positive smears.  RESULTS: Seventy-one specimens were obtained from 36 patients.  Eighteen specimens were positive in 12 patients, all of whom had LRTI.  No specimen was positive in patients not diagnosed as having LRTI.  The ACB test was positive in 12 of 25 patients with LRTI.  Patients with LRTI but negative ACB were more likely to have received prior antibiotic therapy (p less than 0.001).  ACB was positive prior to the clinical diagnosis of LRTI in seven of nine patients (av 4.1 days, range 2-6 days) and converted to negative in three specimens obtained seven or more days after starting appropriate antibiotics, while in three specimens it remained positive three-six days post treatment initiation.  CONCLUSIONS: The ACB test appears to be highly specific for the presence of LRTI in intubated patients.  Sensitivity of the test may be adversely affected by prior antibiotic therapy.  A positive ACB test may predict the subsequent development of LRTI.  Further study is warranted.
Selective intestinal decontamination prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.  In a prospective randomized study, selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin was performed during hospitalization in 32 cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels.  The incidence of infections was compared with that in a control group of 31 nontreated cirrhotic patients of similar characteristics.  We found a significantly lower incidence of infections [1/32 (3.1%) vs.  13/31 (41.9%); P less than 0.005] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [0/32 (0%) vs.  7/31 (22.5%); P less than 0.05] in patients receiving norfloxacin.  The lower incidence of extraperitoneal infections [1/32 (3.1%) vs.  7/31 (22.5%); P = 0.052] in the treated group did not reach statistical significance.  The incidence of infections [1/28 (3.6%) vs.  9/22 (40.9%); P less than 0.01] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [0/28 (0%) vs.  5/22 (22.7%); P less than 0.05] in cirrhotic patients admitted because of ascites was also significantly lower in the treated group.  The decrease in the rate of mortality observed in the group undergoing selective intestinal decontamination did not reach statistical significance.  These data show that selective intestinal decontamination is useful to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and extraperitoneal infections in hospitalized cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels.
A placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. California Collaborative Treatment Group.  BACKGROUND AND METHODS.  In patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high.  We conducted a controlled, double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole.  At entry into the study, all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid, blood, and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis.  The patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy.  The dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase.  RESULTS.  Of 84 patients initially enrolled, 16 (19 percent) were found to have silent, persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry.  Of the remaining 61 patients, 10 of 27 assigned to placebo (37 percent) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole (3 percent) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site (difference in risk, 34 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, 15 to 53).  Of the 11 recurrent infections, 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage.  There were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo, but none in those taking fluconazole (mean duration of follow-up, 164 days) (P = 0.03).  In multivariate analyses, the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment (P = 0.02; relative hazard, 13.2), a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer (P = 0.05; relative hazard, 1.2), and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine (P = 0.09; relative hazard, 1.1).  Survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups.  CONCLUSIONS.  In patients with AIDS, silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis.  Maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection.
Upper genital tract isolates at delivery as predictors of post-cesarean infections among women receiving antibiotic prophylaxis.  The introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis for cesarean delivery has decreased the risk of postpartum endometritis and wound infection, but factors that contribute to prophylaxis failure are not understood.  To determine factors that might contribute to postpartum infections following antibiotic prophylaxis, we cultured amniotic fluid, decidua, and chorioamniotic membrane specimens for anaerobic and facultative bacteria and for genital mycoplasmas at cesarean delivery.  Women were assessed daily for the development of infections, and if endometritis developed, a protected endometrial culture was obtained.  Postpartum endometritis developed in 16 and wound infection in four of 102 women.  Infection rates were similar for women receiving cefotetan (N = 50) or cefoxitin (N = 52) for prophylaxis.  The isolation of group B streptococcus (P less than .001) or Enterococcus faecalis (P = .03) from the upper genital tract at delivery was significantly associated with postpartum endometritis.  Antibiotic-resistant organisms (other than enterococci) were recovered uncommonly at delivery or with postpartum infections.  Group B streptococcus was susceptible to the prophylactic agents used, suggesting that virulence factors other than antibiotic resistance are important for the development of postpartum endometritis.  Group B streptococcus, E faecalis, and bacteria associated with bacterial vaginosis were recovered from the endometrium at the time of postpartum endometritis.
Endogenous colonization by gentamicin-resistant gram-negative bacilli elaborating aminoglycoside (3)-5-acetyltransferase.  Members of the family Enterobacteriaceae that elaborate aminoglycoside 3-5-acetyltransferase [AAC(3)-5] caused a nosocomial outbreak at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center and have persisted.  To see whether the gene for AAC(3)-5 was present in the community, stool cultures of newly admitted patients and ambulatory persons were examined with a specific gene probe.  AAC(3)-5-positive strains were present in the intestinal flora examined.
The effects of three serotypes of Ureaplasma urealyticum on spermatozoal motility and penetration in vitro [published erratum appears in Fertil Steril 1991 Jun;55(6):1214]  The effects of incubation of spermatozoa with three serotypes of Ureaplasma urealyticum on spermatozoal motility and penetration in vitro were investigated.  Using computer-assisted video microscopy, three parameters of motility were determined: individual path lengths, individual vectorial distances, and percentage motility.  Polyacrylamide gels were used as a medium for assessment of spermatozoal penetration.  Ureaplasma-infected spermatozoa did have significantly greater path lengths and individual distances than did uninfected controls, but ureaplasma infection had no significant effect on percentage motility.  Overall, there were no significant differences in penetration distances between ureaplasma-infected spermatozoa and their corresponding uninfected controls.  Our conclusion is that the ureaplasmas did not adversely affect motility or penetration when spermatozoa were incubated with ureaplasmas for 45 minutes at ureaplasma:sperm ratios as high as 100:1.
Incidence, causes and mechanism of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in Hong Kong.  To determine the incidence and causes of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in Hong Kong, all 29,107 samples received in the laboratory in one year were analysed for plasma calcium and albumin, and samples with a plasma calcium concentration adjusted for albumin greater than 2.55 mmol/l were investigated.  Plasma calcium greater than 2.55 mmol/l was found in 462 patients.  Repeat samples were received from 302 of these and hypercalcaemia was confirmed in 183.  The main causes of hypercalcaemia were malignancy (72.1 per cent), tuberculosis (6.0 per cent), and primary hyperparathyroidism (5.5 per cent).  In the malignant hypercalcaemia group, carcinoma of lung was the most common (31.8 per cent) and carcinoma of breast was uncommon (3.0 per cent).  Secondary deposits in bone were detected in 35 of the 122 solid tumours.  In order to identify the mechanism of hypercalcaemia the contributions of renal tubular reabsorption and increased bone resorption to the plasma calcium concentration were calculated.  Increased tubular reabsorption was the main contributor to hypercalcaemia in primary hyperparathyroidism and carcinoma of liver (none of whom had bony metastases) and it contributed significantly to hypercalcaemia in carcinoma of lung without bony metastases and carcinoma of oesophagus.  We conclude that in Hong Kong (a) primary hyperparathyroidism is uncommon, (b) tuberculosis is an important cause and (c) humoral factors may be responsible for a relatively high proportion of cases of malignant hypercalcaemia.
Pleural Pneumocystis carinii infection.  Extrapulmonary Pneumocystis carinii infection is a rare occurrence in patients with AIDS.  Pleural involvement has been demonstrated in only one case, and this occurred after pneumothorax.  This is a case report of pleural pneumocystosis in a patient with AIDS who did not have a pneumothorax.
Epidemiology and natural history of urinary tract infections in children.  Recent retrospective surveys have supported previous investigations in demonstrating the incidence of UTI during infancy; 0.3% to 1.2% of infants develop symptomatic UTI during the first year of life.  Boys are more commonly infected during the first 3 months of life.  After the first year, symptomatic UTI is much more frequent among girls.  Similarly, asymptomatic bacteriuria is more frequently detected in boys than in girls during the first 12 months of life.  Thereafter, the incidence decreases markedly in boys but increases in girls.  Recent investigations indicate that lack of circumcision is a risk factor for UTI among male infants.  Recurrent UTI is common and frequently asymptomatic.  The most important microbiologic factor that is associated with E.  coli causing acute pyelonephritis is adherence mediated by P fimbriae.  Other factors, such as capsule, lipopolysaccharide, aerobactin production, and serum resistance, also determine the invasiveness of E.  coli.  Vesicoureteral reflux appears to be an important host factor predisposing to UTI.  Microbiologic and host factors that are determinants of renal scarring are under investigation.
Surgical removal of subfoveal neovascularization in the presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome.  We treated two patients with presumed ocular histoplasmosis, subfoveal neovascular membranes, and progressive visual acuity loss to 20/400.  Vitreoretinal surgical techniques were used to remove the subfoveal membranes.  Visual acuity returned to 20/20 with seven months of follow-up in one patient (Case 1) and to 20/40 with three months of follow-up in the other patient (Case 2).  No evidence of persistent or current subretinal neovascular membranes in either patient have been noted.  These preliminary results suggest that vitreoretinal surgical techniques may be successful in mechanically removing subfoveal neovascular membranes with preservation of overlying neurosensory retina and thus preservation of central visual acuity.
Diagnosis and prevalence of persistent chlamydia infection in infertile women: tissue culture, direct antigen detection, and serology.  Specimens for chlamydial culture, direct fluorescent antibody (DFA) test, two enzyme immunoassays (EIA) for antigen detection, and serum for chlamydial antibodies were collected from 256 infertile women.  Specimens were taken from the tubes during tuboplasty and from the cervix and endometrium during laparoscopy or tuboplasty.  Antibodies to Chlamydia trachomatis were found four times more often in patients with signs of prior pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) than in infertile women with normal pelvic findings.  Only 48 (37%) of 131 patients with signs of prior PID had a history of PID.  Ten or more C.  trachomatis elementary bodies (EBs) per smear were found in 21 (8.2%) of 256 patients.  Six patients had a positive culture or a positive antigen EIA test.  All six had high numbers of EBs in the DFA test.  We conclude that routine culture and EIA antigen tests detect only a minority of persistent chlamydia infections in this population, but subjective factors in the interpretation of DFA methods must be considered.
Transtracheal delivery of oxygen: efficacy and safety for long-term continuous therapy.  Transtracheal (TT) oxygen delivery involves administration of oxygen percutaneously through a catheter inserted in the suprasternal trachea.  Transtracheal oxygen delivery has been proposed as a means of overcoming the high visibility, inconvenience, and discomfort associated with nasal cannula use.  This report describes our experience using TT delivery in 40 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (n = 32) and other types of lung disease (n = 8).  Overall acceptance of TT catheter use was high and only 5 subjects elected to discontinue use.  We believe the TT route is a relatively safe approach for oxygen administration and a promising method of improving patient compliance.  It also offers the potential of more adequately oxygenating patients with refractory hypoxemia.
Analysis of the immune response to lipopolysaccharide. Existence of an interspecies cross-reactive idiotype associated with anti-lipid A antibodies.  LPS is the major surface glycolipid on gram-negative bacteria.  In this work, we have idiotypically characterized the antibody response against LPS in different species.  To do this, we have produced mAb against LPS.  Binding of many of these antibodies to LPS could be inhibited by LPS and lipid A, indicating that the monoclonals are specific for lipid A, the toxic moiety of the LPS molecule.  One anti-lipid A antibody, IC9, proved protective against gram-negative bacteremia and endotoxic shock in murine protection models.  We generated anti-idiotypic antibodies against IC9.  The binding of several of these anti-Id to IC9 was specifically inhibited by lipid A.  We used these anti-Id to characterize the anti-LPS response, and the results revealed that the IC9 Id is conserved in different species.  The importance of an interspecies cross-reactive Id in the response to endotoxin and its relevance in vaccine development for septic shock are discussed.
Absence of bacteremia during nasal septoplasty.  Episodes of staphylococcal bacteremia resulting in metastatic infection have occurred in association with nasal septoplasty, and this has suggested the possible need for antimicrobial prophylaxis.  In a study designed to measure the actual frequency with which transient staphylococcal bacteremia occurs during nasal septoplasty, 50 healthy patients had blood cultures drawn immediately prior to and during the procedure.  Although 46% of the 50 patients studied had their nasal mucosa colonized with Staphylococcus aureus, some of the blood cultures obtained from the 50 patients showed bacterial growth.  The authors conclude that staphylococcal bacteremia during nasal septoplasty is a rare occurrence, and that antimicrobial prophylaxis is unnecessary.
Improved detection of rotavirus shedding by polymerase chain reaction.  To improve identification of children excreting rotavirus a method for the amplification of rotavirus RNA by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was developed.  The assay was compared with a solid-phase enzyme immunoassay in the detection of rotavirus shedding by infants in hospital during the winter peak of rotavirus infections.  Forty children were studied in an intermediate care unit after transfer from intensive care units.  Only two were admitted primarily because of diarrhoea; the other thirty-eight were admitted for management of various other disorders.  Rotavirus shedding was detected by enzyme immunoassay in twenty of the infants, and nine of these (aged 1 week to 8 months) remained in hospital for more than 5 days after the initial detection of rotavirus and could be studied long term.  Of 103 faecal samples from the nine infants, 60 (58%) contained rotavirus RNA detected by reverse-transcriptase (RT)/PCR, whereas only 37 (36%) were positive for rotavirus antigen by the immunoassay (chi 2 = 10.3, p less than 0.002).  The geometric mean time of rotavirus shedding was 9.5 (range 1-19) days as detected by RT/PCR and 5.7 (range 1-17) days by the immunoassay (p less than 0.018).  In five of the nine children, RT/PCR detected rotavirus shedding for 2-7 days longer than the immunoassay and in four children RT/PCR was positive 1 or more days before rotavirus antigen was detected.  Further studies should attempt to find out whether infected infants are capable of spreading wild-type virus during periods when they are not shedding antigen as detectable by enzyme immunoassay.
Susceptibility to invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b disease and the immunoglobulin G2m(n) allotype.  There has been considerable controversy about the role of the immunoglobulin G2m(n) allotype and risk of invasive Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) disease.  This allotype was studied in a large cohort of Finnish children (178) with invasive Hib disease.  The G2m(n) allotype distribution was similar to that in the normal white Finnish population.  No increased risk of Hib disease could be associated with the n-/n- genotype [i.e., lack of G2m(n) allotype].  Thus, the G2m(n) allotype does not seem to be a major determinant of susceptibility to Hib infection among white populations in industrialized countries.
Adenotonsillectomy in children with sickle cell disease.  The pediatric patient with sickle cell disease risks having a vasoocclusive episode during adenotonsillectomy under general anesthesia.  With proper patient selection and appropriate perioperative management, adenotonsillectomy can be accomplished safely in children with sickle cell disease.  We review the management of 10 children with sickle hemoglobinopathies who had adenotonsillectomy.  Indications for surgery were recurrent streptococcal infections in four and obstructive sleep apnea in six of these children.  No complications resulted from any of these procedures, and the mean length of postoperative hospitalization was 2.4 days.  The principal feature of preoperative management was the transfusion of red blood cells to suppress the patient's endogenous erythropoiesis and to reduce the concentration of sickle cell hemoglobin to less than 30%.  Though a prospective, multi-institutional clinical trial will ultimately be required to settle the issue of the safest preoperative management of children with sickle cell disease, balancing the risks of transfusion-related complications against anesthesia-related complications, our experience supports the operative safety of hypertransfusion therapy in children with sickle cell disease.
The use of a tourniquet when plating tibial fractures.  Sixty closed fractures of the tibia were treated by open reduction and internal fixation with plates and screws.  Half the operations were performed with a thigh tourniquet and half without.  In the tourniquet group, there were six cases with erythema and induration of the wound; in the other group there were no such complications.  Despite negative bacterial cultures, superficial infection of the inflamed wounds was suspected.  It is suggested that a tourniquet may predispose tissues to infection, and its use is not recommended during operations for internal fixation of the tibia.
Focal hepatic tuberculosis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  Patients infected with HIV are known to have unusual manifestations of a variety of infections.  We have described the third reported case of a patient with AIDS having an apparent pyogenic liver abscess subsequently diagnosed as focal hepatic tuberculosis.  This case emphasizes the need for aggressive diagnostic procedures for evaluation of focal liver abnormalities in these patients.
Mild spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia (Namaqualand type): genetic linkage to the type II collagen gene COL2A1.  Namaqualand spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia (NSED) is a mild autosomal dominant form of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia in which changes are maximal in the femoral capital epiphyses and the vertebral bodies.  The condition is present in a large multigeneration South African family, and it is clinically important by virtue of severe progressive degenerative osteoarthropathy of the hip joint, which frequently necessitates prosthetic joint replacement in adulthood.  Linkage studies using molecular markers have shown that the loci for the NSED and type II collagen genes are linked (LOD score 7.98 at a recombination fraction of .00).
Correlation between serum osteocalcin and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels in Paget's disease of bone.  We have studied the possible correlation between serum 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [24,25-(OH)2D] and osteocalcin levels (sBGP) in Paget's disease of bone.  We measured serum calcium, phosphate, PTH, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, 1,25-(OH)2D, 24,25-(OH)2D, alkaline phosphatase (sAP), and the urinary hydroxyproline/creatinine ratio (UOH prol/creat) in 19 patients with Paget's disease of bone and 16 age- and sex-matched controls.  As expected, sAP, UOH prol/creat, and sBGP levels were significantly elevated, and there was a tendency to a decrease in serum levels of 24,25-(OH)2D in Pagetic patients with respect to the control group.  There was no significant difference between patients and controls in serum calcium, phosphate, PTH, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and 1,25-(OH)2D.  The Pagetic patients were subdivided into two subgroups; subgroup A had normal sBGP levels (less than 5 ng/mL), and subgroup B had increased sBGP levels (greater than 5 ng/mL).  Serum 24,25-(OH)2D levels in subgroup B were significantly lower than those in controls, while subgroup A showed levels similar to those in the control group.  We also found a positive linear correlation between sAP and sBGP and between sAP and UOH prol/creat as well as a negative linear correlation between sBGP and 24,25-(OH)2D and between 24,25-(OH)2D and UOH prol/creat in Pagetic patients.  These results point to a possible role of 24,25-(OH)2D in disease activity.
Asymptomatic versus symptomatic herniated thoracic discs: their frequency and characteristics as detected by computed tomography after myelography.  We retrospectively reviewed the myelograms of 433 patients and identified those who had no symptoms or signs referable to the thoracic cord, roots, or nerves.  By post-myelography computed tomographic scan criteria, our frequency of asymptomatic thoracic herniated discs (ATHDs) was calculated.  Post-myelography computed tomographic scans of 68 ATHDs were analyzed.  Their imaging characteristics were compared with our own series of 5 symptomatic thoracic herniated discs and symptomatic thoracic herniated discs in the literature.  We were unable to identify any imaging features that could reliably classify a disc as an ATHD or a symptomatic thoracic herniated disc.  Our results call into question the propriety of prophylactic surgery for ATHDs, even when the lesions are radiographically impressive.
Radiologic manifestations in the musculoskeletal system of miscellaneous endocrine disorders.  The manifestations of endocrine derangements in the musculoskeletal system in infancy and childhood are disturbances in growth and maturation and in adulthood are disturbances in maintenance and metabolism.  Hypercortisolism during skeletal immaturity suppresses growth.  In the adult, hypercortisolism leads to osteoporosis, osteonecrosis, and muscle wasting.  Deficiency of growth hormone during skeletal development results in short stature.  An excess of growth hormone in a skeletally immature individual results in gigantism, an excess in a skeletally mature individual results in acromegaly.  Patients with gigantism have extreme height with normal body proportions.  Musculoskeletal manifestations of acromegaly include soft-tissue thickening, vertebral body enlargement, characteristic hand and foot changes, and enthesal bony proliferation.  Hyperthyroidism causes catabolism of protein and loss of connective tissue, which manifest as muscle wasting.  Deficient levels of thyroid hormone cause defects in growth and development.  Severe growth retardation from congenital hypothyroidism is rare because neonatal screening recognizes the disorder and leads to early treatment.  The skeletal manifestation of hypergonadism in children is precocious growth and early skeletal maturation.  Although the initial precocious growth spurt results in a tall child, early closure of the growth plates results in a short adult.  Hypogonadism in the prepubertal child results in delayed adolescence and delayed skeletal maturation.  Diabetes mellitus in childhood results in decreased growth, a phenomenon presumed to be secondary to nutritional abnormalities.  Generalized osteoporosis and short stature are common.  In the adult, generalized osteoporosis may accompany insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus if obesity is absent.  Calcification of interdigital arteries of the foot is common in diabetics and uncommon in other conditions.  Additional skeletal manifestations relate to complications of diabetes such as peripheral neuropathy and diabetic foot disease.
The effect of spine fusion on respiratory function in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.  Serial measures of respiratory function were made in 17 patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy who underwent segmental spine fusion and in 22 patients who did not.  No significant differences were observed between the 2 groups (operated vs.  nonoperated) in terms of declining respiratory function.  Nonetheless, all operated patients reported either improved sitting comfort, appearance, or both.  Thus, our results suggest that there are distinct benefits from segmental spine fusion; however, there was no salutary effect upon respiratory function either in the short term or after up to 5 years follow-up.
Familial cervical dysplasia.  Nine of twelve family members from three generations were affected by an inherited form of cervical vertebral dysplasia.  All of the affected people had an abnormality of the first cervical vertebra.  Some also had defects of the axis and caudad to it.  The mode of transmission of the disorder is autosomal dominant, with apparently complete penetrance and variable expressivity.  Two patients had symptoms.  One had a passively correctable tilt of the head, with an associated audible clunk and hypoplasia of the left superior facet of the second cervical vertebra.  This patient had no local symptoms, neurological involvement, or muscle spasm.  In the other patient, suboccipital pain developed.  Radiographs revealed an anterior atlanto-occipital dislocation.  The symptoms resolved after reduction and arthrodesis.  Because of the apparently complete penetrance of this disorder, physicians caring for patients who have this type of congenital malformation of the cervical spine should consider examination of closely related members of the family.  Clinical findings such as tilting of the head, torticollis, or limitation of cervical motion suggest that additional evaluation should be done.  The examination should include lateral radiographs of the cervical spine in flexion and extension.  Three-dimensional computed-tomography reformatting was helpful in demonstrating the complex cervical anatomy in our patients.  Patients who have recognized abnormalities should be followed and should be re-examined whenever local or neurological symptoms develop.  A magnetic resonance image of the spine in flexion and extension was valuable for identification of the potentially disastrous situation of impending damage to the cord in patients who had instability and evolving symptoms.
The radiologic morphology of asymptomatic temporomandibular joints.  A high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of 200 female patients with asymptomatic temporomandibular joints.  Fewer than 10% of joints were completely radiologically "normal".  Generally, there was an increasing incidence of changes with increasing age and for edentulous patients, but these relationships were by no means direct or mutually exclusive.
Anterior tibial translation during a maximum quadriceps contraction: is it clinically significant?  Quadriceps exercises are used sparingly in the early rehabilitation of ACL reconstructions because of concern about prematurely stretching the ACL graft.  The aim of this study was to determine if a maximum isometric quadriceps contraction significantly translates the tibia anteriorly at 15 degrees, 30 degrees, 45 degrees, 60 degrees, and 75 degrees of flexion.  Secondly, the role of the ACL in knee stability was analyzed by comparing the amount of tibial translation in normal, ACL deficient, and reconstructed knees.  Thirdly, the location in the motion arc where a quadriceps contraction produces anterior tibial translation was determined.  Anterior tibial translation was measured using an arthrometer (KT-1000) during an 89 N and manual maximum translation applied to the knee at rest.  The manual maximum translation test determines the magnitude of anterior tibial translation produced by a high anterior force applied directly to the proximal calf.  These translations were compared to the tibial translation intrinsically induced by a quadriceps contraction.  Testing was performed in normal (N = 22), ACL deficient (N = 10), and reconstructed (N = 10) knees.  Anterior tibial translation produced by a maximum quadriceps contraction was measured at 15 degrees, 30 degrees, 45 degrees, 60 degrees, and 75 degrees of flexion.  The extension exercise resulted in less anterior tibial displacement than an 89 N drawer and half the translation produced by a manual maximum translation (P less than 0.001).  Instrumented laxity testing produced greater anterior translation of the tibia than a maximum isometric quadriceps contraction.  Anterior tibial translation was the same during maximum isometric knee extension in all tested knees.
Connective tissue disease in southeast Georgia. A community based study of immunogenetic markers and autoantibodies.  HLA antigens, C4 allotypes and T cell antigen receptor (TcR)beta DNA polymorphisms were determined in a community based study of connective tissue diseases (CTD).  HLA-B8, DR3 and C4A null phenotypes occurred frequently in Caucasian patients with CTD, especially those with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), but were also more commonly found among healthy white controls of this southeast Georgia community.  TcR beta gene polymorphisms also showed differential segregation patterns between patients with SLE and scleroderma.  High frequencies of ANA and anti-ssDNA antibodies occurred among apparently healthy family members and local controls.  Genetic factors predisposing to CTD in a community setting appear to be similar to those reported from referral centers.
Magnetic resonance imaging of lumbar disc herniation. Comparison with myelography.  Fifty-three patients with surgically confirmed lumbar disc herniation at 55 levels were studied retrospectively to compare the diagnostic accuracy of high-field strength surface coil magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with that of myelography.  Disc herniation was classified into three groups according to MRI findings, namely, unilateral single-disc herniation, central single-disc herniation, and multilevel disc herniation.  Magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis of unilateral single-disc herniation was extremely reliable, so myelography was considered to be unnecessary.  Conversely, MRI findings of central single-disc herniation and multilevel disc herniation were less definite, in that myelography was necessary in locating the disc causing symptoms.
Analysis of spinal and muscular activity during flexion/extension and free lifts.  Detailed measurements of the relative contributions of spine motion and pelvic motion during flexion-extension and free lifts (squat-type) are examined.  The results are consistent with the conclusion that passive stretching of the ligamentous tissues transmits significant extensor moment in these activities, the power being supplied by the hip extensor complex acting on the pelvis.  In addition, certain injuries result in measurable changes in the kinematic parameters that determine the ligamentous involvement, and these changes can be used to help evaluate spinal condition.
The neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders.  Care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery.  If the clinical picture cannot logically be explained by the radiologic findings, further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder.  Investigations may include electrophysiologic tests, transcranial magnetic stimulation, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).  Only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined.
Hypercapnic respiratory failure due to L-tryptophan-induced eosinophilic polymyositis.  A 24-year-old man presenting with fever, rash, and myalgias subsequently developed hypercapnic respiratory failure and severe limb muscle weakness.  Muscle biopsy revealed eosinophilic myositis, due to the ingestion of large quantities of L-tryptophan as a dietary supplement.  Complete recovery occurred with corticosteroid administration.  Significant involvement of the respiratory muscles can be a predominant feature of this newly described disease entity.
Experimental diabetes, insulin treatment, and femoral neck morphology and biomechanics in rats.  To investigate the effects of diabetes and insulin treatment on trabecular bone, the morphologic and biomechanical characteristics of the femoral neck in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes were studied.  Young Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups, control, diabetic (DM), and diabetic with insulin (DI), and maintained for ten weeks.  Cantilever-bending tests to failure were conducted on the proximal femur, and fracture-surface cross sections were analyzed.  Morphologically, the femoral necks in diabetic rats decreased in the relative size of their cortical shell and increased their trabecular core.  Structurally, the load and the energy at the proportional limit and the total energy in diabetic femoral necks were significantly less than controls.  In material properties, the diabetic femoral necks had significantly less stress at the proportional limit.  Compared to the DM group, the DI femoral necks had significantly greater load and energy at the proportional limit and significantly greater total energy.  Femoral neck mechanical and morphologic properties in diabetic rats were significantly lower than controls, but insulin treatment ameliorated diabetic osteopathy in the rat femoral neck.
African Burkitt's lymphoma: case report and light and electron microscopic findings.  An African Burkitt's lymphoma occurred in a 9-year-old American boy who had jaw tumors, proptosis, and abdominal masses.  Histologically, the tumor consisted of a monotonous overgrowth of undifferentiated lymphocytes with a "starry sky" appearance.  The differential diagnosis of African versus American form and Burkitt's lymphoma versus non-Burkitt's lymphoma is discussed.
Orbital rim and malar advancement for unilateral coronal synostosis in the older pediatric age group.  The authors describe a technique for lateral orbital rim and malar advancement in patients in the older pediatric age group.  The technique makes use of a strip craniotomy containing the supraorbital margin, greater sphenoid wing, and temporal bone, with en bloc inclusion of the lateral orbital rim, zygoma, and malar prominence.  The method allows a contoured yet stable construction secured in a tongue-in-groove fashion with plate-and-screw fixation.  It creates a symmetrical reconstruction of both frontal and lateral orbital aspects in the untreated or inadequately treated older plagiocephalic child with orbital dystopia.  The accompanying malar recession is likewise corrected.
Intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis: a combined institutional review.  Intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies.  The charts of all patients (n = 649) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the University of Minnesota Hospital and to the University of Michigan Medical Center during a 13-year period (1975 to 1988) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications.  The clinical presentation, bacteriology, involved sinuses, influencing host factors, white blood cell count on presentation, length of hospitalization, and postinterventional complications are presented.  Twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7%.  Aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality.  Intracranial complications included subdural empyema, frontal lobe abscesses, intrahemispheric abscesses, cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, and osteomyelitis.
Ureaplasma urealyticum chronic osteomyelitis in a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia.  Mycoplasma species are recognized as important pathogens in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia.  In this article we describe, for the first time, a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia who developed osteomyelitis of the hip caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum.  This article emphasizes the need for considering infection with Mycoplasma species in patients with antibody deficiency.
Spontaneous degenerative polyarthritis in male New Zealand black/KN mice.  Histopathologic studies and radiographic analysis revealed that male New Zealand black/KN (NZB/KN) mice develop degenerative polyarthritis in the joints of the forepaw and hindpaw beginning at age 2 months.  Deposits of autoantibodies were observed on proliferating collagen fibers, nuclei of chondrocytes, and epidermal cells.  Increases in the frequency of positivity for rheumatoid factor and anti-type II collagen antibodies and in the level of serum oxidation activity were noted in these mice.  The joint disease in male NZB/KN mice was transferable to female NZB/KN mice and male BALB/c mice by intraperitoneal injection of spleen cells from the male NZB/KN mice.  This animal model of arthritis will be extremely useful for analyzing not only the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis, but also new strategies for its treatment, since NZB/KN mice, unlike MRL/lpr mice, do not develop severe lupus nephritis or lymph-adenopathy, and therefore have a longer survival period.
The interspinous method of posterior atlantoaxial arthrodesis.  Thirty-six patients underwent C1-2 posterior wiring and fusion procedures over a 5-year period for unstable C-2 fractures (eight cases), unstable atlas-axis combination fractures (six cases), rheumatoid C1-2 instability (14 cases), os odontoideum (four cases), traumatic C1-2 ligamentous instability (three cases), or instability secondary to a C-2 tumor (one case).  In each case, the atlantoaxial arthrodesis utilized sublaminar wire at C-1 and incorporated an iliac-crest strut-graft positioned between the posterior arches of C-1 and C-2, held in place by securing wire around the base of the spinous process of the axis.  Follow-up examination was performed in all patients after a mean postoperative duration of 33.7 months.  The technical aspects and clinical merits of this fusion procedure, which led to a 97% union rate (one nonunion) and minimal morbidity and mortality rates, are presented.
Fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection.  Tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA).  Fifteen of 51 (29%) patients with HIV infection met criteria for fibromyalgia, based on the presence of 10 tender (of 14) "fibrositic" points.  Similar results were observed among patients with PsA (24%).  The prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with RA (57%).  Patients with HIV and PsA were less tender than patients with RA.  Fibromyalgia in patients with HIV was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia, but not with age, duration of HIV infection, stage of HIV disease, or zidovudine therapy.
Treatment of de Quervain tenosynovitis. A prospective study of the results of injection of steroids and immobilization in a splint.  In a prospective study of non-operative treatment of de Quervain tenosynovitis, ninety-nine wrists of ninety-five consecutively seen patients who had this diagnosis had an injection of one milliliter of a 1 per cent lidocaine solution and one milliliter of a suspension containing forty milligrams of methylprednisolone acetate.  Twelve patients (twelve wrists) were lost to follow-up.  Of the remaining eighty-seven wrists, fifty-four (62 per cent) had a satisfactory outcome at a mean of eighteen months (minimum follow-up, twelve months).  The duration of symptoms before treatment did not affect the outcome.  The result in thirty-three wrists (38 per cent) was considered unsatisfactory.  Thirty of these wrists were subsequently treated with operative release of the first dorsal compartment, and twenty-two (73 per cent) of the thirty were found to have a separate compartment for the extensor pollicis brevis.  The prevalence of a separate compartment is significantly higher than that in the general population, as shown in anatomical studies of cadavera.
Reviewing the unicystic ameloblastoma: report of two cases.  Classification of ameloblastoma into solid, multicystic, unicystic, and peripheral types based on clinical appearance and effects has gained recent recognition.  The unicystic ameloblastoma is a less encountered variant of the ameloblastoma.  It appears more frequently in the second or third decade with no sexual or racial predilection.  It is almost exclusively encountered asymptomatically in the posterior mandible.  The following report of two cases discusses the pathophysiology, demographics, histology, and prognosis of the unicystic ameloblastoma.
Spinal Charcot arthropathy.  Charcot joints of the spine are well-documented clinical entities most commonly associated with tabes dorsalis.  Spinal neuropathic joints, however, may be produced by other disease processes including syringomyelia.  In this review, the authors discuss the cause and treatment of spinal Charcot arthropathy with emphasis on surgical therapy and results.
Antibiotic therapy for osteomyelitis.  Antibiotic therapy for osteomyelitis has dramatically changed within the past twenty years.  The diagnostic criteria for osteomyelitis remain confusing to practicing physicians.  Bone biopsy culture is now the standard for determining specific antimicrobial therapy.  Many of the newest and most potent antimicrobials are now used to treat the increasingly broad bacterial spectrum of etiologies of osteomyelitis.  There are tremendous economic incentives for outpatient and/or oral therapy.  The third-generation cephalosporins and the new fluoroquinolones have replaced older, more toxic regimens, especially those containing aminoglycoside used to treat gram-negative osteomyelitis due to susceptible organisms.
Fractional lengthening of the flexor tendons in clubfoot surgery.  Massive scarring of the Z-lengthened flexor digitorum and flexor hallucis longus is a constant finding in clubfoot surgery.  A method of fractional lengthening of the tendons is described.  This method has been proven effective in preventing this complication.
Trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes.  Two-hundred-and-fifty patients with juvenile diabetes mellitus aged 3-38 years, were examined for trigger finger.  Thirteen patients (5%) were found to have trigger finger--10 women and 3 men aged 14-38 years (mean 26 years).  The ring, middle fingers, and thumb were the most affected.  Two patients had bilateral trigger finger.  There was a significant correlation between duration of diabetes and trigger finger (p less than 0.001) but no correlation with the control of diabetes.  Our work indicates for the first time the prevalence of trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
Synovial membrane histology and immunopathology in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. In vivo effects of antirheumatic drugs.  We examined the histologic and immunopathologic features of the synovial membrane of 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 12 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) who had undergone total knee arthroplasty.  Patients were classified into 5 groups according to therapeutic regimen and disease: RA treated with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), RA treated with NSAIDs and prednisone, RA treated with NSAIDs and methotrexate (MTX), OA treated with analgesics, and OA treated with NSAIDs.  There were no significant between-group differences in the percentages or the distribution pattern of the infiltrating T cell subsets (CD4, CD8), HLA-DR, or interleukin-2 receptor-bearing cells.  However, inflammatory indices, which included the thickness of the lining cell layer and the density of the mononuclear cell infiltrate, were significantly higher in the RA patients treated with prednisone and those treated with MTX (P less than 0.05).  Similarly, fibrosis was markedly reduced in these 2 groups.  The RA patients treated with NSAIDs alone and the 2 groups of patients with OA demonstrated similar profiles.  These data suggest that prednisone and MTX may inhibit the development of fibrosis without altering the subsets of the inflammatory cell population.  This observation raises the possibility that the action of these 2 drugs may be partly mediated by the suppression of inflammatory mediators that are responsible for fibroblast activation.
Internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint: a histochemical study.  The purpose of this study was to correlate histologic findings in temporomandibular joint (TMJ) condyles and discs with their macroscopic appearance at surgery.  The 24 patients with internal derangement of the joint included 20 women and 4 men (mean age, 37 years; range, 18 to 61 years).  The tissue lesions varied in degree from mild soft-tissue fraying and bone remodeling to extensive resorption and new cartilage and bone formation with high phosphatase enzyme activities, and even to loss of articular soft tissue and breakdown of cortical bone.  Reactions may arise in the hard tissues before they occur in the articular surface layers.
Clinical and pathologic studies of twenty-six patients with penetrating foreign body injury to the joints, bursae, and tendon sheaths.  Foreign body synovitis has been neglected in the rheumatology literature.  We describe 26 patients in whom arthritis, bursitis, or tenosynovitis appeared within 1 day to 7 years after an initial injury by a penetrating foreign body.  Twenty-two patients presented with acute synovitis, which was followed by chronic or recurrent inflammation mimicking septic arthritis, osteomyelitis, monarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, bone tumor, or apatite deposition disease.  Foreign bodies were not seen in 5 inflammatory synovial fluids studied, but were seen in the synovium or periarticular tissues of 17 patients.  Excisional biopsy was required in most patients for precise diagnosis and treatment.
Septic hip in pelvic fracture with urologic trauma: case report.  Urologic injuries occur in 10% of pelvic fractures and hip sepsis is a rare complication.  The symptoms of a septic hip are often not as dramatic when found in the setting of an acute pelvic fracture and may be overlooked.  A case is presented with a review of the literature.  Early recognition and aggressive surgical debridement are important to prevent the long-term sequelae of septic arthritis.
Pathomechanism, pathogenesis, and results of treatment in cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis.  In this study, the pathomechanism and pathogenesis of dynamic canal stenosis caused by cervical instability in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and the validity of the concept of instability are clarified by analyzing the results of treatment in 53 cases.  In cases of cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis, the authors found that the posterior slide of the vertebral body occurs as a result of degeneration in the cervical spine due to aging changes, and that the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal decreases with an increase of the degree of posterior slide.  This is followed by gradual aggravation of the clinical symptoms.  Continuous cervical traction was found to be the first choice of treatment.  Surgical treatment is indicated in cases in which the traction was ineffective, or even when it was effective, in cases in which the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score remained low or when there was a tendency toward rapid aggravation of symptoms.  It was demonstrated that the shorter the duration of the myelopathy, the better the results of treatment obtained.  A limit of the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal of 12 mm was considered as valid.
Late effects of treatment for Wilms' tumor. A report from the National Wilms' Tumor Study Group.  The National Wilms' Tumor Study (NWTS) was initiated in 1969.  One of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications.  The NWTS has therefore incorporated a Long Term Follow-up Study (LTFS) within its framework to monitor late effects.  The LTFS is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery, and data are collected using specifically designed forms.  A total of 787 patients registered on NWTS-1 or NWTS-2 (1969 to 1979) were eligible, of whom 680 (86%) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and neuropsychologic status, and the presence of benign and malignant tumors.  Patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported, along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities (32 versus 2), nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation (35 of 57 versus 5 of 53, respectively).  The difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive Adriamycin (Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) (2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk) had borderline statistical significance (P = 0.06).  No excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine.  When considering patients with disease of all stages, all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation (RT patients); benign tumors were also more frequent in RT patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation (41 of 486 or 8% versus 4 of 194 or 2%).  Continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed, especially for those given Adriamycin, because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients.
Tibial collateral ligament bursa: MR imaging.  The bursa of the tibial collateral ligament (TCL) may be visualized at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging when it becomes distended with fluid.  In the authors' experience, this finding signifies a pathologic condition either in the medial capsuloligamentous complex or in the bursa itself.  Such a finding may indicate TCL bursitis.  TCL bursitis can be suspected in the setting of isolated pain in the medial joint line in the absence of mechanical symptoms.  Prolonged relief of symptoms after injection of steroid into the bursa is supportive of the diagnosis.  Seven cases are presented in which a fluid-filled TCL bursa was identified at MR imaging.  In five cases, TCL bursitis was suspected.  The differential diagnosis for the MR findings is discussed.
Incidence of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis.  STUDY HYPOTHESIS: Rhabdomyolysis is a common complication of cocaine use, and muscle symptoms fail to predict its development.  STUDY POPULATION: A prospective, convenience sample of patients presenting to the emergency department of a large inner-city hospital with complaints related to cocaine use were eligible for inclusion.  Patients were excluded if they had other potential causes of elevated creatine kinase (CK) levels or rhabdomyolysis.  A control group comprised patients who were not cocaine users and satisfied the exclusion criteria.  Sixty-eight patients were studied.  METHODS: Initial evaluation included determination of the presence of muscle pain or swelling and total CK levels.  Patients with a CK level of more than 800 U/L had additional tests, including a urine myoglobin, urine drug screen, and serum phosphorus.  Rhabdomyolysis was defined by a serum CK level of more than 1,000 U/L (more than fivefold that of normal).  CK levels were compared by two-tailed Student's t test.  Muscle symptoms were compared with the development of rhabdomyolysis by Fisher's exact test.  RESULTS: The CK level in the cocaine group was 931 +/- 1,785 U/L (mean +/- 1 SD).  The CK level in the control group was 242 +/- 168 U/L (P = .028).  Of the cocaine users, 24% (eight of 34) had rhabdomyolysis; one developed multiorgan failure and died.  No patient in the control group had a CK level of more than 1,000 U/L.  Only one cocaine user who developed rhabdomyolysis had muscle symptoms.  Three cocaine users had muscle symptoms but did not develop rhabdomyolysis.  No patient in the control group had muscle symptoms or developed rhabdomyolysis.  Muscle symptoms did not predict the CK level (P = .55).  CONCLUSION: This study revealed that 24% of the cocaine users had rhabdomyolysis.  Many of the cases of rhabdomyolysis were not predictable from history or physical examination, making laboratory evaluation essential.
Scalp pilomatrix carcinoma as an extra-axial mass.  We report the CT, MRI, and angiographic findings in a case of pilomatrix carcinoma that had invaded the temporal bone and presented itself as an extra-axial mass.  Even though bone destruction was better shown with CT, the tumor mass with its meningeal and tentorial extension was seen more clearly with MRI.  The arteriogram demonstrated a unique vascular supply from the external carotid artery.
Prevalence of angioid streaks and other ocular complications of Paget's disease of bone.  Seventy randomly selected patients with Paget's disease of bone were examined for ocular complications.  The prevalence of macular degeneration and cataract was 24.3%.  Only one patient was found to have angioid streaks.  Eight patients had peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy.  These findings suggest that the prevalence of serious ocular complications of Paget's disease is not as high as previously thought.  The significance of peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy requires further evaluation.
Bilateral femoral retroversion associated with acetabular dysplasia. A case report.  Retroversion of the proximal femur is associated with a number of acquired conditions but is unusual in a congenital form.  It is even more unusual to be associated with acetabular dysplasia.  A 38-year-old woman with bilateral hip pain had roentgenographic evidence of acetabular dysplasia with valgus neck-shaft angles.  Physical findings were consistent with femoral retroversion, and computed tomography demonstrated 28 degrees of retroversion on both sides.  Symptomatic relief was obtained with bilateral varus internal rotation osteotomies of the proximal femur.  To date, a case of retroverted femora associated with acetabular dysplasia seems not to have been reported in the literature.
Pyogenic spinal sepsis in adults.  Twenty adult patients presented with bacteriologically and histologically proven nontuberculous spinal sepsis.  Thirteen patients presented with varying degrees of neurologic impairment.  All patients underwent spinal decompression; in 11 this was combined with an anterior fusion using autogenous tricortical iliac grafts.  All patients have recovered and are ambulatory, and no patient's disorder was made worse by surgery.  Twenty-three separate organisms were cultured, only five of which were Staphylococcus.  The antibiotic courses were shorter and pain relief more rapid with anterior fusion.  All anterior bone grafts incorporated rapidly, and there was no progression of kyphosis or sequestration of grafts, regardless of organisms or level.  The rational treatment of adult spinal sepsis necessitates the securing of tissue from the spine for histologic and bacteriologic examination.  Pain relief, stabilization, and neural decompression can best be achieved with anterior decompression and fusion.  Autogenous iliac crest grafts incorporate in the presence of sepsis.
Early antibiotic treatment of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections: clinical and serological study.  OBJECTIVE--To find out whether a 10-14 days' course of antibiotics early in the course of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections could reduce the severity and duration of the disease and whether the antibody response in patients with reactive arthritis associated with yersinia infection differed between those treated and those not treated with the antibiotics.  DESIGN--Prospective multicentre trial in which patients were randomised to treatment or no treatment with antibiotics.  Patients were seen at three and six weeks and three, six, nine, 12, and 18 months after their first visit.  SETTING--Departments of infectious diseases in three hospitals in Linkoping, Malmo, and Stockholm, Sweden.  PATIENTS--40 Consecutive patients who had had symptoms of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection for less than four weeks.  INTERVENTIONS--20 Patients were allocated to treatment with antibiotics and 20 patients did not receive antibiotics.  All patients received non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and four also received intra-articular steroid injections after at least six weeks' observation.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Arthritic symptoms assessed clinically and by using Ritchies' index; blood measurements reflecting inflammatory activity; serum IgG, IgM, and IgA antibody titres; HLA tissue type.  RESULTS--No difference was observed concerning duration of arthritis, grade of inflammation, and number of joints affected between patients treated and those not treated with antibiotics.  Furthermore, there was no significant difference between the two groups in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and haptoglobin, IgG, and IgA concentrations.  All values had returned to normal within three months.  No patient developed chronic arthritis, but sustained slight arthralgia occurred in three patients.  The HLA-B27 antigen was found in 23 (58%) of the patients, and its presence did not affect clinical outcome.  The IgG, IgM, and IgA antibody responses were similar in patients treated with antibiotics and those not treated.  CONCLUSION--Short term antibiotic treatment has no beneficial effect on the clinical outcome of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection.
Suppression of type II collagen-induced arthritis by monoclonal antibodies.  Some mouse monoclonal antibodies raised against chicken type II collagen suppressed or delayed the onset of chicken type II collagen-induced arthritis in DBA/1 mice.  This was correlated with the suppression of anti-mouse type II collagen antibody responses following immunization with chicken type II collagen.  The epitopes recognized by the suppressive antibodies were found to be present on cyanogen bromide (CB)-digested collagen peptides CB-11 and CB-12.  This was also confirmed by the finding that administration of the CB-11 or CB-12 peptide suppressed the induction of arthritis.
Giant intradiploic epidermoid tumor of the occipital bone: case report.  The authors describe a case of a giant intradiploic epidermoid cyst of the occipital bone with an intracranial extension in the posterior fossa and no signs of neurological involvement.  The lesion started as a painless lump under the scalp.  Roentgenographic and computed tomographic findings led to a correct diagnosis, and the complete removal of the cyst was accomplished, despite its large size.  The total removal of these cysts is associated with a good prognosis.
Histopathology of metastatic temporal bone tumors.  Temporal bone metastasis is now being reported with increasing frequency.  To understand the process of temporal bone metastasis, complete histologic evaluation of the temporal bones is essential.  In this study, 60 temporal bones from 33 patients were evaluated.  Different patterns of temporal bone involvement were noted depending on the mode of spread to the temporal bone.  Involvement of the temporal bone usually occurs late in the disease process and is often asymptomatic.
Magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the muscles in childhood dermatomyositis.  Documentation of muscle involvement in a child thought to have dermatomyositis may require the performance of invasive procedures such as electromyography and/or muscle biopsy.  We describe four patients with dermatomyositis in whom magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated the muscle involvement.  The involved muscles had increased signal intensity on the T2-weighted images (SE 2500/80) and normal appearance on the T1-weighted images (SE 600/20).  The involvement of the muscles was not uniform.  There was good correlation between the distribution of muscle involvement by MRI and functional testing.  Follow-up MRI scans in patients with favorable outcome demonstrated that the affected muscles had returned to normal signal intensity.  Although the MRI findings are not specific, in the proper clinical context they may be helpful in establishing the diagnosis of dermatomyositis.  MRI may also be used in establishing an appropriate muscle biopsy site.  In addition, MRI may be used for monitoring the progress of the disease.
Chronic fatigue syndrome: is it real?  Epstein-Barr virus is no longer considered an important cause of chronic fatigue syndrome.  Instead, the disease is probably related to an underlying psychiatric disorder, subtle immunologic dysfunction, or an interaction between these two factors.  A carefully taken history, physical examination, and simple laboratory testing are usually sufficient to establish the diagnosis.  Therapy with antidepressants or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may be effective in selected patients.  Thorough follow-up conducted with empathy and optimism is important in all cases.
Management of delayed union and nonunion of maxillary osteotomies.  Delayed union and nonunion of maxillary osteotomies are unusual, but have been seen with a variety of surgical moves.  Management of these problems can be divided into early and late therapy.  Four cases are presented illustrating some of these methods of treatment.
Skeletal manifestations of ectopic or inappropriate endocrine and metabolic syndromes.  A variety of tumors and nontumorous lesions were used to illustrate some of the biologic, clinical, and pathologic aspects of inappropriate or ectopic endocrine and metabolic syndromes that have musculoskeletal repercussions.  It is clear, both from the discussion and case material, that many mechanisms of ectopic endocrine syndromes have yet to be clarified.  Elaborate techniques are available for hormonal estimations, but their routine use is prohibitively expensive and relatively unrewarding.  Cells of a given lesion may be functionally heterogeneous or may fail to elaborate active products in substantial amounts.  Different cells may produce similar peptides, while the same cells can produce more than one.  Despite these difficulties, recognition of ectopic endocrine syndromes remains crucial to diagnosis and patient management, and thus corroboration or correlation must often rest on a cruder basis.  In fact, the clinical significance of basic laboratory data, e.g., PTH elevation, may vary, as PTH may be immunoreactive but biologically inactive.  As another example, hypercalcemia associated with myeloma may be variously related to coexistent hyperparathyroidism, renal disease, dehydration, or humoral osteolysis.  Therefore, roentgenographic evidence of bone destruction or skeletal stigmata of hyperparathyroidism imbues laboratory data with greater significance.  Paraneoplastic syndromes are of particular concern to the radiologist, as multiple systemic manifestations, occurring either synchronously or metachronously, may suggest the presence of an underlying or unifying lesion or even of a specific type of neoplasm.  They may precede detection of neoplasms by months to years and can develop at any time during their course.  Paraneoplastic syndromes may, furthermore, parallel the course of a lesion and be used as indicators of remission or recurrence.  Conversely, those unassociated with overt symptoms possess endocrine markers that can reinforce sometimes silent skeletal stigmata.  Familiarity with representative secretory products influencing the musculoskeletal system per se may often clarify seemingly innocuous and sometimes asymptomatic skeletal findings.  Alert imagers may, therefore, detect, infer, or suspect particular syndromes when they present in a specific sequence or mosaic.  Conversely, when apprised of their existence, imagers should know where their related effects may be sought or anticipated.  Such relationships, sometimes serendipitously discovered, may be valuable assets in clinical diagnosis and patient management in both suspected and unsuspected cases.
Nasopalatine duct cyst: an analysis of 334 cases.  The nasopalatine duct cyst (NPDC) is the most common cyst of nonodontogenic origin in the maxilla.  However, the information reported about this lesion consists primarily of small surveys and isolated case reports.  The purpose of this retrospective investigation was to gather demographic, clinical, and histologic data on a large series of NPDCs, and to compare the findings with those of previous studies.  In this study, the overall mean age at diagnosis was 42.5 years, and there was a slight male predilection.  The mean radiographic diameter was 17.1 mm, but 75% of the lesions were 20 mm or less in diameter.  Symptoms were present in at least 70% of the cases.  Only 28% of the specimens contained respiratory epithelium.  There was no correlation between radiographic size, patient's age, presenting symptoms, or type of epithelium.  Recurrence was noted in only 2% of the cases.
Codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in longer-term treatment of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip. A randomised, double-blind, multi-centre study.  This randomized, double-blind, multi-centre study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment for 4 weeks with codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in relieving chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip.  A total of 158 outclinic patients entered the study.  Eighty-three patients (mean age 66 years) were treated with codeine 60 mg plus paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily, and 75 patients (mean age 67 years) with paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily.  Ibuprofen 400 mg was prescribed as rescue medication.  Due to an unexpected high rate of adverse drug reactions, the study was closed before the planned 400 patients had entered.  Over weeks 1-4, 87%, 64%, 61% and 52% of patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group, and 38%, 31%, 22% and 29% of patients in the paracetamol group had one or more adverse drug reactions.  Significantly more patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group had adverse drug reactions in each of the 4 weeks.  Nausea, dizziness, vomiting and constipation were predominant adverse reactions in the codeine plus paracetamol group.  During the first week of treatment, 30 patients (36%) in the codeine plus paracetamol group and 9 (12%) in the paracetamol group dropped out.  As evaluated from patients completing the first week of treatment, the pain intensity during that week compared to their baseline pain was significantly lower in the codeine plus paracetamol group than in the paracetamol group.  Moreover, during the first week the paracetamol group received rescue medicine significantly more frequently.  In conclusion, when evaluated after 7 days of treatment, the daily addition of codeine 180 mg to paracetamol 3 g significantly reduced the intensity of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip joint.  However, several adverse drug reactions, mainly of the gastrointestinal tract, and the larger number of patients withdrawing from treatment means that the addition of such doses of codeine cannot be recommended for longer-term treatment of chronic pain in elderly patients.
Polyurethane foam-covered implants and capsular contracture: a laboratory investigation.  Experiments were conducted in rabbits comparing polyurethane foam-covered implants with otherwise identical smooth silicone gel implants.  Using five objective methods of measurement of capsular contracture, no significant difference could be identified.  The foam-covered implants consistently developed capsular contracture, although in most cases this was of mild degree and would not have been clinically significant.  In the two foam-covered implants with hard contractures, there was no evidence of hematoma or separation of the foam.
A new dynamic lumbrical simulating splint for claw hand deformity.  The claw hand deformity, resulting from low ulnar or combined low ulnar and median nerve palsy, is an incapacitating situation.  The splint described herein reverses the clawing by substituting for the lumbricals and interossei.  If started early, it not only prevents the permanent stiffness of fingers in the claw position, but also effectively restores function without hampering day to day work because it is a surface splint.
Analysis of the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan core protein (CSPGCP) gene in achondroplasia and pseudoachondroplasia.  Achondroplasia and pseudoachondroplasia are autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasias resulting in short-limbed dwarfism.  Histologic and ultrastructural studies of the cartilage in pseudoachondroplasia and in homozygous achondroplasia have suggested a structural abnormality in chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG), a major structural protein in the extra-cellular matrix.  The gene encoding CSPG core protein (CSPGCP) is thus a logical "candidate gene" for analysis in these conditions.  cDNA probes encoding CSPGCP were used to identify restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) in DNA from a panel of control individuals.  No gross alterations at the CSPGCP locus were noted in DNA from 37 individuals with achondroplasia and 5 individuals with pseudoachondroplasia.  In addition, allelic frequencies of the RFLPs were not significantly different among controls and patients with either condition.  In one three-generation family with achondroplasia, close linkage of the CSPGCP locus and the skeletal dysplasia was excluded using a Bgl II polymorphism.  Similarly, in a three-generation family with pseudoachondroplasia, the CSPGCP gene was not tightly linked to the disease phenotype.  These results indicate that mutations at the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan core protein locus do not cause achondroplasia or pseudoachondroplasia in these families.
Immunogenetic heterogeneity in rheumatoid disease as illustrated by different MHC associations (DQ, Dw and C4) in articular and extra-articular subsets.  Genetic variants at DRB1 (Dw subtypes), DQB, and C4 loci were compared in rheumatoid disease subjects with or without the extra-articular feature of Felty's syndrome or major vasculitis.  DR4 positive subjects with rheumatoid arthritis alone showed no preferential associations with DQB or Dw variants or with C4 null alleles.  Felty's subjects showed associations with the DQB encoded DQw7 allele and with the C4B null allele but no preferential associations with any Dw subtype of DR4.  By contrast DR4 +ve rheumatoid-vasculitic subjects showed associations with the Dw14 as well as with DQw7 and the C4A null allele.  These different MHC associations in different clinical disease subsets show that rheumatoid disease is immunogenetically heterogeneous and suggest that MHC genes outside the DRB1 locus may also influence susceptibility or modify expression of the rheumatoid disease process.
Stimulation of dorsal root ganglia and degradation of rabbit annulus fibrosus.  The authors sought to determine whether narrowing of the intervertebral neural foramen, by itself and in association with vibration, would stimulate the mechanosensitive dorsal root ganglia and result in degradation of proteoglycan and collagen of the annulus fibrosus, as proposed in their working model of dorsal root ganglia-neuropeptide-mediated degeneration of the spinal motion segment.  Degradation of proteoglycan and collagen of rabbit annulus was observed when there was narrowing of the neural foremen and the degradation process was accelerated by vibration.  Vibration alone, in the absence of structural abnormalities of the spinal motion segment, did not induce matrix degradation probably because of a less pronounced stimulation of the dorsal root ganglia.  Biological events similar to those postulated here, fomented by a combination of structural abnormalities and environmental factors, could be involved in human disc degeneration.
Le Fort I osteotomy approach to the skull base.  Horizontal osteotomy allows the surgeon to safely down-fracture the maxilla for wide exposure of the central skull base.  This surgical approach is easily extended posteriorly in the midline to include the clivus and the arch of C1, providing 8 cm of horizontal anterior exposure and 5 cm of posterior.  Wide operative exposure and a low rate of complications afford superior functional and cosmetic preservation in removing tumors of the central cranial base.
Local antibiotic delivery in the treatment of bone and joint infections.  Antibiotics can be delivered locally via an implantable pump to treat bone and joint infections.  This is a completely closed system, and the pump is refilled percutaneously at intervals based on its flow rate.  The use of this method is described in three specific clinical situations: (1) resistant osteomyelitis (patients with persistent infections despite previous therapy), (2) acutely infected arthroplasties (symptomatic for less than six weeks), and (3) chronically infected arthroplasties (patients infected more than six weeks).  In all three clinical situations, hospitalization time was shortened, and high local and low systemic levels of antibiotic were obtained.  There was only one incident of side effects to the antibiotic used.  This method has been successful in obtaining long-term suppression of infection in 30 of 42 patients with resistant osteomyelitis, 30 of 37 patients with acutely infected arthroplasties, and seven of ten patients with chronically infected arthroplasties.  The complication unique to this method of therapy is pump-site and catheter-site infections.  This occurred in three patients with recalcitrant osteomyelitis and three patients with acutely infected arthroplasties.
Centronuclear myopathy heterogeneity: distinction of clinical types by myosin isoform patterns.  We studied muscles from 3 patients with centronuclear myopathy (CNM) by immunocytochemistry using myosin heavy chain (MHC)-specific monoclonal antibodies to determine whether subtypes of CNM express prenatal MHC and to assess if there is an arrest in development of these muscles.  Muscle from a woman with childhood-onset CNM did not express prenatal MHC, yet this prenatal MHC was strongly expressed in the muscle fibers of 2 brothers with X-linked CNM.  This finding represents the 1st immunocytochemical evidence of the expression of a prenatal myosin isoform in nonregenerating postnatal human muscle and suggests that the X-linked form of CNM differs from the other types because of a true arrest in maturation of the muscle.
Acute osteomyelitis in children. Reassessment of etiologic agents and their clinical characteristics.  One hundred thirty-five children with acute osteomyelitis were identified by chart review during a 7-year period, January 1, 1980, through December 31, 1986.  Bacteriologic causes were detected in 75 (55%) of the patients.  Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae type b, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were identified in 34 (25%), 16 (12%), and eight (6%) children, respectively.  Staphylococcus aureus occurred in all age groups, H influenzae type b occurred only in children younger than 3 years and was the number one cause of disease in this group.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa occurred exclusively in children older than 9 years.  Children with H influenzae type b had clinical and laboratory findings that were almost indistinguishable from a matched group of children with osteomyelitis due to other known bacteria, although children with H influenzae type b tended to have more joint effusions (63% vs 27%), less lower extremity disease (22% vs 70%), and fewer positive cultures from bone or joint aspirates (41% vs 89%).  Unlike most pediatric cases of osteomyelitis, the ones due to P aeruginosa did not represent the hematogenous route of infection; penetrating injury to the foot was present in every case.  Children with P aeruginosa infections were older than 9 years (100%), predominantly male (88%), often afebrile (83%), and never bacteremic.  These data provide guidelines for the initial work-up and management of osteomyelitis in children.
Treatment of the retained permanent molar.  The effect of five different treatments for retained permanent molars was evaluated in 59 patients to develop a rational guideline for adequate therapy.  The results showed that a prosthetic buildup is the proper treatment if retention develops after the growth spurt, because in these cases the extent of infraocclusion is slight and relatively stable.  If retention develops before the growth spurt, immediate removal of the retained molar followed by orthodontic treatment is the way to maximal success.  When retention develops during the growth spurt, the tooth affected has to be observed at 6-month intervals.  In such a case, no active treatment is indicated if the neighboring teeth show no tilting and the extent of infraocclusion is minor and stable.  In all other cases, the teeth affected have to be removed, followed by orthodontic closure of the edentulous space.  Finally, all patients must be screened regularly, because in this investigation, new cases of retention were observed relatively frequently.
The diabetic foot. Soft tissue and bone infection.  Diabetic patients, as a consequence of various neurologic, vascular, and metabolic perturbations, are at high risk for developing infections of the soft tissue and bones of the feet.  The microbial etiology of soft tissue in infections is best determined by cultures of a tissue curetting or aspiration, rather than a swab.  Aerobic gram-positive cocci are the major pathogens in diabetic foot infections; these may be the sole isolate(s) in acute uncomplicated infections, but they are usually accompanied by aerobic gram-negative bacilli or anaerobes in chronic or previously treated infections.  Carefully selected patients with mild infections can be treated as outpatients with oral antibiotics, but others require hospitalization and broad-spectrum parenteral antibiotics.  Bone infections are frequently diagnosed on the basis of roentgenographs and nuclear medicine scans, but these methods are often inaccurate, and bone cultures should be obtained whenever possible.
Indium-111-chloride and three-phase bone scintigraphy: a comparison for imaging experimental osteomyelitis.  To investigate the utility of indium-111-chloride (111In-Cl) imaging in detecting osteomyelitis complicating surgical or fracture sites, the proximal tibia of 11 dogs were experimentally infected with Staphylococcus aureus after creation of a cortical defect.  The contralateral limb served as a sham-operated control.  Animals were serially imaged by radiography, three-phase technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate (99mTc-MDP) scintigraphy, and 111In-Cl scintigraphy.  There was a significant difference between infected (1.93) and noninfected (1.32) limb's tibia/femur count density ratios on 24-hr (p = 0.0001) and 72-hr (p = 0.0001) 111In-Cl images.  A smaller difference was found for 99mTc-MDP bone-phase tibia/femur ratios (p = 0.0199).  Using receiver operator characteristic analysis of tibia/femur ratios, a sensitivity of 61%, specificity of 88%, and positive (75%) and negative (79%) predictive values were determined for the 24-hr 111In-Cl images.  Indium-111-chloride was superior to 99mTc-MDP in differentiating infected and noninfected operative sites.
Pyoderma gangrenosum complicating Felty's syndrome.  The case of a 54-year-old woman with Felty's syndrome whose course was complicated by mucocutaneous lesions clinically typical of pyoderma gangrenosum is described.  Necrotizing sinusitis and saddle nose deformity were distinctive clinical features.  Lymphocytic vasculitis and rheumatoid nodule formation observed within panniculus at the base of a cutaneous lesion and in a nasal mucosal lesion were unexpected histopathologic findings.
Factors affecting fusion rate in adult spondylolisthesis.  The authors examined factors affecting fusion rate in the surgical treatment of 89 consecutive adult patients with spondylolisthesis.  Two factors significantly improved fusion rate: combined anterior and posterior fusion and rigid postoperative immobilization in the cast.  In 65 patients with isthmic spondylolisthesis, the fusion rate was raised from 70% when posterior fusion alone was used to 88% when combined anterior and posterior fusion was used.  In 20 patients with degenerative spondylolisthesis, frequent use of combined anterior and posterior fusion contributed to a high overall fusion rate of 95%.  Among patients with isthmic spondylolisthesis, postoperative cast immobilization resulted in a higher fusion rate of 90% compared with a fusion rate of 63% obtained after brace immobilization.
Variable phosphate-mediated regulation of vitamin D metabolism in the murine hypophosphatemic rachitic/osteomalacic disorders.  The familial hypophosphatemic (vitamin D-resistant) disorders are a variety of genetic and acquired syndromes that exhibit unexpected biochemical heterogeneity, manifest as variably abnormal or apparently normal regulation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25-(OH)2D] production.  Recently, we observed that Hyp and Gy mice, murine homologs of X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, exhibit similarly disparate regulation of vitamin D metabolism.  While Gy mice under basal conditions maintain an appropriate elevation (relative to hypophosphatemia) of renal 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD)-1 alpha-hydroxylase, Hyp mice manifest only normal, not increased, enzyme activity.  Whether such diversity results from maintenance of phosphate (P)-regulated 1,25-(OH)2D production in Gy mice and loss of this function in Hyp mice or from other variations remains unknown.  Therefore, we examined the integrity of P-regulated enzyme activity in the Gy and Hyp mice by testing the effects of enzyme inhibition and alteration of the serum phosphorus concentration on 1,25-(OH)2D production.  Initially, we discovered that inhibition of renal 25OHD-1 alpha-hydroxylase suppressed enzyme function in Hyp mice, but did not prevent expression of P-mediated activity in Gy mice.  In this regard, while administration of a high calcium diet or 1,25-(OH)2D (0.4 ng/h, sc, for 48 h) resulted in a comparable inhibition of enzyme activity in Hyp (5.9 +/- 0.5 vs.  2.8 +/- 0.7 fmol/mg.min) and normal mice (4.4 +/- 0.6 vs.  2.0 +/- 0.2 fmol/mg.min), similar treatment did not effect complete inhibition of 25OHD-1 alpha-hydroxylase in Gy (10.3 +/- 0.6 vs.  4.9 +/- 0.3 fmol/mg.min) or P-depleted mice (10.2 +/- 0.5 vs.  5.1 +/- 0.4 fmol/mg.min).  In accord with the apparent persistence of P-mediated stimulation of enzyme function in Gy mice, dietary P repletion in this mutant resulted in a serum phosphorus concentration similar to that of normal mice and decreased enzyme activity (4.0 +/- 0.8 fmol/mg.min) to a level no different from that expressed in controls (3.4 +/- 0.3 fmol/mg.min).  However, in the absence of apparent P-mediated stimulation of enzyme activity, identical treatment of Hyp mice increased the serum phosphorus level comparably, but paradoxically enhanced 25OHD-1 alpha-hydroxylase (3.1 +/- 0.4 vs.  11.7 +/- 2.0 fmol/mg.min).  Collectively, these data indicate that enhanced renal 25OHD-1 alpha-hydroxylase expressed in Gy mice and probably in related human diseases results from normally maintained P regulation of enzyme activity, an action absent or mutated in the genetically distinct Hyp mouse.
Lipomatous hamartoma of the orbit.  Proliferations of mature adipose tissue, while common in retroperitoneal and subcutaneous sites, rarely occur in the orbit.  We describe the clinical, radiographic, and histopathologic findings of a nonencapsulated lipomatous tissue overgrowth of the right orbit in a 35-year-old man.  The mass had caused proptosis since childhood and was apparently present since birth.  Due to the age at onset, the histologic similarity to normal orbital fat, and the lack of encapsulation or choristomatous elements, we propose the term lipomatous hamartoma for this entity.
Macroscopic and microscopic gut lesions in seronegative spondyloarthropathies.  A retrospective study by ileocolonoscopy and multiple biopsies was performed on 96 patients with seronegative spondylarthropathy, 17 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) and 19 patients with chronic abdominal discomfort.  Under these conditions, inflammatory gut lesions were detected in 66.7% of the patients with spondyloarthropathy, 12.5% with OA and 15.8% with chronic abdominal discomfort.  In 10 patients treated by sulfasalazine (Salazopyrine), pathologic lesions disappeared simultaneously with an improvement of the rheumatic conditions.  comparison between patients treated and untreated with nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs (NSAID) demonstrated that NSAID did not enter into the etiopathology of the intestinal lesions.  Our study therefore confirms the high incidence of inflammatory gut lesions among patients with spondylarthropathy which seems not to be related to NSAID therapy.
Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of three-month treatment with lymecycline in reactive arthritis, with special reference to Chlamydia arthritis.  We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study of 3-month treatment with lymecycline, a form of tetracycline, in reactive arthritis (ReA).  Lymecycline therapy significantly decreased the duration of the illness in patients with Chlamydia trachomatis-triggered ReA, but not in other ReA patients.  In 2 ReA patients, C trachomatis was found in the throat, an uncommon locale for this organism.  Our results suggest that it is important to verify the triggering microbe and that it is beneficial to treat Chlamydia arthritis patients with a prolonged course of tetracycline.
Microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of L-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989.  We describe our pathologic study of skin, fascial, and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy, histochemistry, and electron microscopy.  A perivascular, lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis, fascia, and skeletal muscle.  Lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen.  Ultrastructurally, capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present.  This microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome.
Carcinosarcoma of the lung with hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy.  Carcinosarcoma of the lung is a rare malignancy.  Endobronchial and parenchymal variants are classically described.  Clinicopathological features are often related to anatomical location, as is the case for most lung neoplasms.  This case report details the surgical management of a carcinosarcoma in a patient seen with pulmonary osteoarthropathy.
The management of chronic osteomyelitis.  Chronic osteomyelitis of childhood is heterogeneous but it can be broadly classified into nonspecific or specific groups.  Children with chronic osteomyelitis because of mycobacteria or mycoses are included within the specific group.  The nonspecific group is the larger.  It includes chronic osteomyelitis as a sequel to late acute osteomyelitis as well as chronic unifocal and chronic multifocal osteomyelitis.  Whereas Staphylococcus aureus and other pyogenic organisms are commonly cultured from chronic lesions following late acute osteomyelitis, they are less frequently cultured from those with chronic unifocal osteomyelitis and rarely cultured from those with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis.  The methods of treatment and the results also differ between these subgroups of nonspecific osteomyelitis.  Lesions following late acute osteomyelitis are usually cured following surgery and antibiotics.  Chronic unifocal osteomyelitis is usually cured with antibiotics only or with surgery and antibiotics.  In contrast, surgery and antibiotics are largely ineffective in children with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis, but the disease appears to be self-limiting.
Neural arch stenosis and spinal cord injury in thanatophoric dysplasia.  Bony abnormalities caused by thanatophoric dysplasia affect the base of the skull and the vertebrae as well as the ribs and appendicular long bones.  We present our findings in a full-term infant with thanatophoric dysplasia in whom the posterior fossa, the rostral vertebral column, and the neuraxis at and adjoining the craniovertebral junction were studied by dissection, roentgenography, and histologic examination.  In this infant, malformations of the vertebral laminae, most prominent in the basiocciput and atlas vertebra, led to compression of the rostral cervical spinal cord, causing gliosis and focal necrosis.  Stenosis of the foramen magnum and spinal canal may contribute to the ventilatory insufficiency that often causes death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia.  We suggest that the causes of death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia and other severe forms of osteochondrodysplasia should be sought in neuraxial injury rather than attributed solely to pulmonary hypoplasia.
Primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton: an audit of the Leeds regional bone tumour registry.  An audit of the Leeds regional bone tumour registry found that primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton constituted 90 of the 2004 cases (4.5%).  Thirty seven per cent occurred in the ribs, 32% in the scapulae, 11% in the thoracic vertebrae, 11% in the sternum, and 9% in the clavicles.  Malignant tumours were more common than benign (54 v 36) and occurred in an older population (mean ages 47 and 31 years).  The scapula was the most common site for malignant lesions and the ribs the most common site for benign tumours.  Chondrosarcoma was the commonest tumour in older patients, fibrous dysplasia and plasmacytoma in the middle age group, and eosinophilic granuloma in children.  Presenting symptoms were a poor guide to whether the lesion was malignant or not.  This and the small proportion of correct preoperative diagnoses indicate the need for early biopsy.  Bone tumour registries provide a valuable source of cumulative information about uncommon tumours and facilitate accurate diagnosis, teaching, and research.
Effect of aortic sclerosis on bone mineral measurements by dual-photon absorptiometry.  Measurements of the bone mineral content (BMC) of lumbar spine by dual-photon absorptiometry (DPA) are performed mainly in the anteroposterior (AP) projection.  Due to superimposition of the abdominal aorta, the BMC measured for patients with aortic calcification usually is too high.  To determine the influence of aortic calcifications, DPA scans were performed in the AP-projection on 100 dissected abdominal aortae with different degrees of atherosclerosis placed on a human lumbar spine cast in lucite.  The measured values were compared with those obtained in the same projection without the aortae.  The average increase of the BMC values relative to the mean for the vertebrae L2 to L4 for aortae with severe complicated lesions, i.e., those containing larger amounts of calcium, was 0.03 g/cm2, with a maximum deviation of 0.09 g/cm2.  Aortae with fatty streaks or fibrous plaques did not cause significant increases of the BMC.  The mean deviation for aortae with mild complicated lesions, i.e., those containing smaller amounts of calcium, was within the range of instrument precision.
The role of venous hypertension in the pathogenesis of Legg-Perthes disease. A clinical and experimental study.  Thirty-two patients in whom Legg-Perthes disease apparently involved only one hip were examined with venography, measurement of intraosseous and intra-articular pressures, arthrography, and dynamic triphasic bone-imaging with 99mTc methylene diphosphonate.  The arterial flow of blood in the affected femoral head was slightly decreased, but the difference from that on the normal side was not statistically significant.  However, there was marked disturbance of the venous drainage in the diseased hip, elevated intraosseous pressure in the affected femoral neck, and increased intra-articular pressure in the involved hip compared with the normal side.  An animal model was then created in twenty immature dogs, venous drainage was obstructed, and intraosseous pressure of the femoral head and neck was elevated by injection of four milliliters of semiliquid silicone into the femoral neck.  In eleven of the dogs, areas of avascular necrosis resembling those associated with Legg-Perthes disease developed in the femoral head.
Multidisciplinary treatment of primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma. A single-institution experience.  Orbital rhabdomyosarcoma accounts for one-fourth of the primary tumors in the head and neck region.  Modern treatment modalities have led to a 2-year survival rate of about 90% in these patients.  However, new therapeutic trials are designed to reduce complications and salvage more than 90% of orbital cases.  Between 1979 and 1990, 12 children affected by primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma have been diagnosed and treated at the University of Naples.  Ten of them have been uniformly treated by biopsy, followed by immediate radiation and combined chemotherapy.  All 12 patients are alive and free of detectable disease, from a minimum of 7 months to a maximum of 123 months after diagnosis.  In all children, ocular structures have been spared and the complications observed until now have been few.  The above results suggest that the association of immediate radiation therapy and chemotherapy might represent an optimal tool for treatment of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma.
Post-traumatic osteoarthritis--a medico-legal minefield.  A consensus view has been obtained from 108 colleagues about four major questions relating to post-traumatic osteoarthritis (OA) posed by a retired judge.  In determining the likelihood of OA developing after a fracture, several factors must be taken into account.  These include whether the fracture goes through the joint, the resulting angular deformity, the degree of soft tissue damage, the ensuing laxity of the joint, the presence of generalized OA, the involvement of nearby blood vessels supplying the bones of the joint and possibly the degree of immobilization.  Lower limb joints are more likely to develop arthritis after injury than arm joints as they carry more load (although it would be wrong to think that arm joints were not load bearing).  Occupation is a further factor.  Age is thought to be important, with the elderly more at risk immediately, but the younger having longer in which to develop the disease.  Younger people are less likely to develop post-traumatic OA, unless there is involvement of the epiphysis or residual angular deformity.  Whilst in animals and in some fractures, degenerative changes begin immediately after damage to the joint, in most adults they take at least 2 years.  The span is 2-5 years in more severe cases, including fractures of the joint line with a step in the surface, and associated dislocation.  Otherwise it may take 10 years.  Most of these data are anecdotal or obtained from retrospective surveys.  There is great need for prospective work in this field.
Spinal stenosis. When arthritis is more than arthritis!  Spinal stenosis is the result of disc degeneration and narrowing accompanied by facet joint changes culminating in nerve root entrapment.  Symptoms of back and leg pain appear gradually usually over a period of years and slowly worsen.  Patients are usually in their 50s or older.  Most patients are treated initially with nonoperative measures concentrating on pain relief and maintenance of activity.  If the symptoms worsen, surgical intervention to relieve pain by decompressing the affected nerve roots is appropriate.  Some patients with instability require a fusion.  Most patients are satisfied with the results of surgery in relieving preoperative leg pain.  Pain relief is often dramatic, allowing most patients to return to normal activity.  Elderly patients tolerate this procedure surprisingly well.  Old age alone should not be a contra-indication for this surgery.  Therefore, the elderly should not be denied the benefits of surgical decompression.  Nursing interventions can help these patients learn about spinal stenosis and assist them in pursuing appropriate treatment resulting in improved quality of living.
The Caspar microsurgical discectomy and comparison with a conventional standard lumbar disc procedure.  The outcome in 119 patients who were operated on with a conventional standard lumbar discectomy procedure was retrospectively compared with that in 299 patients who were operated on with a microsurgical discectomy technique developed in Homburg/Saar, Federal Republic of Germany by the senior author (W.C.).  All patients in this consecutive series had "virgin" lumbar radiculopathy evaluated and operated upon by two experienced surgeons at one institution.  Determination of the final outcome was made objectively by an impartial third party using identical criteria for both groups, and with a patient self-evaluation form.  The study looked at various pertinent aspects of the treatment course and at final outcome.  The results in the microsurgical group were significantly favorable: fewer levels were explored: there was less operative blood loss and a decreased incidence of deep venous thrombosis, urinary tract infections, pulmonary emboli, and bladder catheterization; the time to full ambulation, discharge, and return to work was faster: and there was a decrease in change of occupation and a greater percentage of satisfactory final outcomes, as measured both objectively and subjectively.  A description of the microsurgical technique used in this study, which differs significantly from existing microdisectomy techniques, is presented.  The authors conclude that the microsurgical disectomy technique presented in this study is a safe and effective approach to the treatment of lumbar radiculopathy.
Surgical treatment of internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint. A long-term study.  A long-term surgical follow-up study of 176 patients (211 joints) with documented internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint was carried out.  Arthrograms and tomograms were used in all cases.  Forty of the patients (49 joints) were nonsurgical control patients.  Diagnostic staging of the cases was accomplished as previously published.  A clinical/radiologic assessment index was derived, which included seven measured parameters.  Surgical patients, grouped by diagnostic stages and selected operations, were compared with each other and with control patients over the follow-up period (average, 8.1 years; range, 5 to 14 years).  The surgical procedures included meniscectomy, reconstructive arthroplasty, and arthroplasty with temporary Silastic (Dow Corning Wright, Arlington, Tenn) implant.  The overall success rate for surgical cases with all stages and procedures was 93.8%.  In contrast, the control group demonstrated significant clinical and radiographic progression.  The surgical results were stage dependent for the same operative procedure.  Significantly better success rates were obtained in early-stage cases (96.9%) than in late-stage cases (89.4%).  With respect to comparison of operative procedures, it was found that reconstructive arthroplasty provided results superior to those of meniscectomy.  There was no significant difference between results obtained by meniscectomy and those by arthroplasty with a temporary Silastic implant.  Long-term stability was excellent in most cases.  Follow-up radiographic changes for the surgical group were less than expected.  On the other hand, radiographic analysis of the control group demonstrated progressive degenerative changes in 73.5% of cases.  Complications over the entire study were rare.  It was concluded that surgery can provide successful long-term results in the treatment of internal derangements.
Infectious mononucleosis, Epstein-Barr virus, and chronic fatigue syndrome: a prospective case series   Epstein-Barr viral infection, specifically infectious mononucleosis, typically has a more protracted course than other acute viral illnesses.  Some recent observers have additionally suggested the possibility that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the etiologic infectious agent in chronic fatigue syndrome, based on the finding of higher proportions of elevated antibodies to the EBV early antigen in some patients complaining of chronic fatigue.  Straus et al reported on 23 patients with chronic fatigue, 83% of whom exhibited persistently elevated antibodies in modest titer to the early antigen.  Ten of these patients had never fully recovered from an episode of acute infectious mononucleosis.  Other studies had noted similar associations between persistently elevated antibodies to EBV-specific antigens and chronic symptoms in patients who presented with chronic symptoms after mononucleosis.  Three important antigen complexes, demonstrable by immunofluorescence procedures, are expressed in EBV-infected cells.  The early antigen is thought to function perhaps in early replication of viral DNA.  A late antigenic complex, the viral capsid antigen, may represent, in addition to structural capsid proteins, components of the viral enzymatic machinery for late phases of replication or transformation.  The Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen is felt to function in viral transformation of host cells.
Silicone rubber fossa implant removal via partial arthrotomy followed by arthroscopic examination of the internal surface of the fibrous capsule.  Thirteen temporomandibular joints were examined arthroscopically for evaluation for fibrous encapsulation of silicone elastomer disk replacement implants.  Partial arthrotomies were performed with removal of silicone rubber implants, followed by arthroscopic examination of the internal surfaces of the fibrous capsule as a pseudodisk and to verify the continuity of the fibrous barrier between the condyle and the fossa.
Quantitative gait analysis in unilateral and bilateral total hip replacements.  By qualitative and quantitative analysis of gait we evaluated the outcomes in 41 patients after total hip arthroplasty for degenerative arthritis.  Patients with unilateral and bilateral degenerative hip disease were evaluated in an effort to characterize preoperative and postoperative gait characteristics.  Patients were evaluated using a subjective hip-rating scale and a gait-evaluation mat.  Data were compared with those obtained from a control group of 91 patients.  All patients showed a marked improvement in both subjective ratings and measured quantitative gait parameters.  Patients with unilateral hip disease improved to a greater extent than those with bilateral disease after arthroplasty.  We have concluded that total hip arthroplasty can greatly improve the gait characteristics of patients with degenerative arthritis, and that this improvement can be quantified, documented, and followed by using a system of gait evaluation.
Treatment of Freiberg's disease. A new operative technique.  A method of treating Freiberg's disease of the metatarsal head by shortening the metatarsal bone is described.  This operation has been performed in 15 patients (16 feet).  Excellent relief of pain was obtained, although most patients had persistent stiffness of the metatarsophalangeal joint.
A histologic and immunohistochemical study of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease.  The articular cartilage, synovial membrane, and meniscus from ten patients who had calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystal deposition disease showed strong immunoreactivity for dermatan sulfate proteoglycan, Type I collagen, and S-100 protein in hypertrophic chondrocytes around the crystals, their pericellular matrix, and deposits of the crystals.  Electron microscopy revealed that small crystals were formed around the hypertrophic chondrocytes, especially in the degenerated matrix containing electron-dense granular materials and cellular debris.  Chondrocytes of this kind were never observed in the articular tissue from ten patients who had osteoarthrosis.  These hypertrophic chondrocytes with several unique immunohistochemical characteristics may initiate the formation of CPPD crystals.
Pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  We describe the cases of three women with pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  The illness was characterized by elevated peripheral blood eosinophil counts, myalgias, fatigue, and dyspnea.  Two of three patients had bilateral infiltrates on chest roentgenograms.  All three had markedly decreased carbon monoxide diffusing capacities and pulmonary hypertension.  High-dose prednisone therapy provided only partial resolution of the pulmonary symptoms.  Open lung biopsy specimens showed chronic interstitial and perivascular infiltrates in two of the patients and moderate fibrointimal hyperplasia of pulmonary vasculature in the third.  High-dose prednisone therapy prior to the biopsies may have modified the original histologic features.
Cytogenetic evidence of clonality in a case of pigmented villonodular synovitis.  Pigmented villonodular synovitis is an uncommon benign lesion that is characterized by diffuse synovial proliferation.  Based on animal models, this lesion has been conjectured previously to be reactive in nature.  In this report, the authors present the histologic and cytogenetic findings for a pigmented villonodular synovitis that was excised from the right knee of a 47-year-old man.  Trisomy 7 was observed in 24 of 75 (35%) metaphases obtained from short-term culture of cells from this tumor.  These findings suggest that some cases of pigmented villonodular synovitis represent clonal, neoplastic proliferations.
The operative management of basilar impression in osteogenesis imperfecta.  Four patients with osteogenesis imperfecta and neurologically significant basilar impression have been treated over the past 8 years.  The experience has resulted in changes in our therapeutic strategy for this particularly difficult problem.  These cases are discussed with respect to the disease process, neurological involvement, radiological findings, and modes of surgical therapy.  The errors in management as well as the success resulting from our learning experience are described.  Currently, we recommend the extensive removal of the anterior bony compression by a transoral approach.  This should be followed by a posterior rigid fixation that transfers the weight of the head to the thoracic spine, in an effort to prevent further basilar invagination.
Dislocation after primary arthroplasty for subcapital fracture of the hip. Wide range of movement is a risk factor.  Dislocation is the most frequent serious complication following total hip replacement for subcapital femoral fracture.  We report a prospective study, using matched groups, which compared the range of hip movement following hip replacement for arthritis and for fracture.  The range of movement was significantly greater in the fracture group.  We suggest that this is a predisposing factor for dislocation.
Occult posttraumatic osteochondral lesions of the knee: prevalence, classification, and short-term sequelae evaluated with MR imaging.  The prevalence, characterization, and classification of acute, post-traumatic, occult subcortical fractures of the knee, identified at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, were evaluated prospectively in 120 consecutive patients first seen with acute posttraumatic hemarthrosis of the knee.  Occult subcortical femoral and tibial fractures were identified in 72% of patients.  A modified MR imaging classification is suggested based on a combination of the appearances of such lesions at MR imaging and their short-term osteochondral sequelae.  Among 67% of a cohort of 21 patients first seen with what have been described as occult geographic subcortical fractures, osteochondral sequelae were seen at follow-up MR imaging 6-12 months later.  The evidence from this study indicates that specific subcategories of occult subcortical knee fractures are associated with an inordinately high prevalence of osteochondral sequelae, especially significant cartilage damage.
The contribution of the glenohumeral ligaments to anterior stability of the shoulder joint.  The purpose of this study was to investigate the ligamentous stabilizing mechanisms preventing anterior instability in the glenohumeral joint.  Six freshly thawed, unembalmed cadaveric shoulders were dissected, preserving the joint capsule and glenohumeral ligaments, the coracohumeral ligament, and the subscapularis tendon.  Hall-effect strain transducers were placed on the superior, middle, and inferior glenohumeral ligaments.  The humerus and scapula were fixed in a specifically designed mounting apparatus that allowed the glenohumeral joint to be placed in 0 degree, 45 degrees, or 90 degrees of abduction.  The mounting apparatus was placed in a model TTC Instron Universal Testing Instrument, which applied an external rotation torque to the humerus.  Strain produced in the three glenohumeral ligaments was recorded on a three-channel X-Y chart recorder.  At 0 degree of abduction, the superior and middle glenohumeral ligaments developed the most strain.  At 45 degrees of abduction, the inferior and middle glenohumeral ligaments developed the most strain, with considerable strain also being developed in the superior glenohumeral ligament.  At 90 degrees of abduction, the inferior glenohumeral ligament developed the most strain, with strain also seen in the middle glenohumeral ligament.
Extremely low serum pyridoxal 5'-phosphate in children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets.  The apparent vitamin B-6 status of 31 children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets (FHR) was determined.  All children had alkaline phosphatase activity that was high-normal to elevated for their ages.  A sensitive assay for pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) indicated that 15 of the 31 children had an undetectable (less than 0.2 nmol/L) concentration of the vitamer--the lowest values yet reported in human serum.  The 16 remaining children had concentrations of the vitamer so low that they indicated a potential severe vitamin B-6 deficiency.  However, none of the children had ever presented with any of the classical vitamin B-6-deficiency symptoms.  Treatment of three additional FHR children with 100 mg pyridoxine.HCl/d resulted in a moderate and transient elevation of their serum PLP concentrations, a dramatic elevation of their erythrocyte PLP concentrations, and no improvement in clinical condition.  Serum or plasma PLP concentrations are an inappropriate index for determining vitamin B-6 status in people with FHR and perhaps in others with elevated alkaline phosphatase activity.
Premature alveolar bone loss in Erdheim-Chester disease.  Erdheim-Chester disease is a rare histiocytosis also known as lipoid granulomatosis.  Oral findings have not been reported previously to our knowledge.  This case report documents evidence of oral sequelae of Erdheim-Chester disease.  A patient whose course was followed for 10 years at the National Institutes of Health had premature alveolar bone resorption.  He underwent full-mouth extraction at age 29 years because of severe periodontitis.  Histopathologic evidence of Erdheim-Chester disease was demonstrated in the periodontal soft tissues.  In the ensuring years, accelerated resorption of the residual ridges precluded the use of conventional dentures.  We recommend early preventive dental management for patients with Erdheim-Chester disease.
Recurrent calcific periarthritis, erosive osteoarthritis and hypophosphatasia: a family study.  We describe a mother and 2 daughters with familial recurrent calcific periarthritis in a family with an inherited tendency to develop generalized osteoarthritis (OA).  Low levels of serum alkaline phosphatase were found in 1 of the daughters while the mother developed erosive OA in later life.  HLA typing was noncontributory.  However, the 3 individuals with periarthritis possessed blood group A+, while the 6 unaffected family members were O+.  The experience of this family adds weight to the case that recurrent calcific periarthritis may be due to an inherited abnormality of alkaline phosphatase production and suggest that this may also be responsible for the recently observed association of calcific periarthritis and erosive OA.
Traumatic synovitis analysed by arthroscopy and immunohistopathology.  The synovitis induced in previously healthy subjects by knee joint trauma was investigated at arthroscopic surgery performed after 3-70 days.  Synovitis was confined to the areas of the synovial membrane bordering the cartilage lesion and displayed a varied intensity of inflammation.  Biopsies were sampled under direct vision from the area of the peak inflammatory intensity within each joint and analysed by immunohistopathology.  Only sparse lymphocytic infiltration and a slight increase of lining cell layers were found in the biopsies after as long as 70 days.  The restricted extent and limited intensity of the inflammatory changes contrast with previous findings in rheumatoid arthritis.  However, the arthroscopic and immunohistopathological signs of synovitis were no different.
Vitamin D and bone.  Recent studies of the effects of vitamin D on bone include characterization of the receptors for 1,25-(OH)2D3 in bone and bone derived cells.  The receptors show similar affinities in the different tissues.  The receptor concentration is affected by the stage of the cell cycle.  Glucocorticoid treatment affects the number of receptor sites.  The most extensively studied effects of 1,25-(OH)2D3 on macromolecular synthesis in bone have been on collagen, where both anabolic and antianabolic effects are found.  Differences in the response may reflect the state of differentiation of the cells.  Significant effects are seen on osteocalcin synthesis, although the role of this protein in vitamin D action on bone is still unclear.  1,25-(OH)2D3 influences the activity of alkaline phosphatase and 25-OH-D3 24-hydroxylase in bone.  Receptors for growth factors, and production of cytokines may be influenced by 1,25-(OH)2D3 treatment.  Although some of these findings would be consistent with direct anabolic effects of vitamin D or its metabolites on bone, such a process has yet to be integrated into the complete picture of vitamin D action at physiological and pharmacological levels in vivo.  Recent studies are consistent with earlier results that indicate that hypercalcemic effects of 1,25-(OH)2D3 are mediated by a direct effect on bone.  Studies with analogs of 1,25-(OH)2D3 suggest that the stimulation of bone resorption can be dissociated from effects on differentiation of cells of the monocyte lineage.
Recovery from osteopenia in adolescent girls with anorexia nervosa.  Osteopenia is a frequent complication of anorexia nervosa (AN).  To determine whether the deficit in bone mineral changes during the course of this illness, we studied 15 adolescent patients prospectively for 12-16 months using dual photon absorptiometry of the spine and whole body.  At follow-up, mean weight, height, and body mass index (BMI) had increased significantly, although 6 girls had further weight loss or minimal gain (less than 1.2 kg).  Spontaneous menses occurred in 2 girls, and 3 others were given estrogen replacement.  Bone mineral density of the lumbar spine did not change significantly (mean +/- SD, 0.836 +/- 0.137 vs.  0.855 +/- 0.096 g/cm2), while whole body bone mineral density increased (0.710 +/- 0.118 vs.  0.773 +/- 0.105; P less than 0.05).  Despite gains in bone mineral, 8 patients had osteopenia of the spine and/or whole body.  Changes in weight, height, and BMI were significant predictors of change in bone mineral density.  Increased bone mass occurred with weight gain before return of menses; conversely, weight loss was associated with further decreases in bone density.  In 1 patient who failed to gain weight, estrogen therapy resulted in increased spinal, but not whole body, bone mineral.  We also studied a second group of 9 women who had recovered from AN during adolescence.  All 9 had normal whole body bone mineral for age, but 3 had osteopenia of the lumbar spine.  We conclude that osteopenia in adolescents with AN reflects bone loss, perhaps combined with decreased bone accretion.  Weight rehabilitation results in increased bone mineral before the return of menses.  Estrogen may have an independent effect on bone mass.  The persistence of osteopenia after recovery indicates that deficits in bone mineral acquired during adolescence may not be completely reversible.
Microcomputer reconstruction for analysis of spinal deformity and lung volume in hypokyphotic scoliosis.  Current techniques for imaging chest deformity are limited to two-dimensional representations, and clinical testing for lung volume measurements are based on pulmonary function studies that are effort-dependent.  The authors evaluated spine deformity and lung volume by using a new three-dimensional microcomputer imaging technique.  Results from preoperative and postoperative chest computed tomograms underwent boundary detection by expert human observers.  Data were then processed by polygon surface tiling to create three-dimensional color images of the spine and lungs for display.  This computer technique allowed: 1) visualization of the anatomic relationships from any angle, 2) assessment of spinal deformity in relation to lung volume, and 3) measurement of individual lung volumes.  Three-dimensional microcomputer imaging is a useful technique in objectively measuring lung volume and assessing postoperative changes.
Cutaneous manifestations of the L-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome: a spectrum of sclerodermatous skin disease.  The natural history of the clinical and pathologic features of skin disease was reviewed prospectively in 30 patients with the L-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Overall, cutaneous manifestations developed in 26 patients (87%).  Early lesions were nonspecific and characterized predominantly by an erythematous macular eruption on the trunk and extremities.  The most characteristic abnormality noted was the spectrum of sclerodermatous disease in 15 patients (50%) often after a subacute stage of peripheral or truncal edema.  Clinical and/or biopsy evidence of eosinophilic fasciitis was seen in nine patients (30%).  Findings consistent with diffuse, limited, or localized scleroderma were subsequently observed in nine patients (33%).  Small mucinous papules, similar to those seen in scleromyxedema, were found in five patients (17%).  Alopecia, frequently a late sequela, developed in 11 (37%).  Common histologic features included papillary dermal fibrosis, dermal and fascial infiltrates consisting of mononuclear cells and eosinophils, deposition of glycosaminoglycans in the dermis, and, in some patients, numerous mast cells.
Acute rheumatic fever in West Virginia. Not just a disease of children.  Rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community.  We describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) in West Virginia.  This is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of ARF in the Ohio Valley area in the last 4 years.  In contrast to the other reports, nearly two thirds of our cases of ARF were in adults, more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of ARF.  In these adults with recurrences, none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation.  Carditis was present in seven adults, two without a history of carditis.  Arthritis was present in all adult patients.  These data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of ARF and document that ARF is not simply a disease of childhood.  Furthermore, our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of ARF, especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection.
Relationship of limited joint mobility to abnormal foot pressures and diabetic foot ulceration.  OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of limited joint mobility (LJM) in causing abnormal foot pressures and foot ulceration.  RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The subjects were recruited from a general diabetes clinic where patients were screened for neuropathy, retinopathy, and elevated plantar foot pressure.  Sixty-four patients in five groups were matched by age and sex in the following groups: group 1, patients with LJM and neuropathy; group 2, nonneuropathic diabetic patients with LJM; group 3, patients with neuropathy and no LJM; group 4, diabetic control subjects; and group 5, nondiabetic control subjects.  Joint mobility was assessed in the foot at subtalar and metatarsophalangeal joints; plantar foot pressures were assessed by optical pedobarography and neuropathic status by a Biothesiometer and electrophysiology.  RESULTS: Joint mobility was reduced at both sites in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3, 4, and 5 (P less than 0.001).  Plantar foot pressures were significantly higher in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3, 4, and 5 (P less than 0.001).  No differences in plantar foot pressures were observed between groups 1 and 2.  There were strong correlations between plantar foot pressures and joint mobility in the foot (r = -0.7, P less than 0.001).  Previous foot ulceration was present in 65% of patients in group 1, none in group 2, and 5% in group 3.  CONCLUSIONS: 1) LJM may be a major factor in causing abnormally high plantar foot pressures, 2) abnormal plantar foot pressures alone do not lead to foot ulceration, and 3) LJM contributes to foot ulceration in the susceptible neuropathic foot.
A test for knee posterolateral rotatory instability.  A test for knee posterolateral instability, which is a modification of the standard posterolateral rotatory instability test, is described.  In this test, the patient lies supine on the examination table with hips and knees flexed to 90 degrees.  The examiner grasps both feet and attempts to maximally externally rotate them.  A positive test is indicated by (1) excessive external rotation of the affected tibia, which is easily recognized since the feet act as pointers and amplify the external rotation, and (2) a slight posterior sag of the affected tibial tubercle, which is more subtle but still a very recognizable sign.
Hydrocephalus: overdrainage by ventricular shunts. A review and recommendations.  Selected literature review of the clinical course of patients with ventricular shunts for hydrocephalus shows that the effects of cerebrospinal fluid overdrainage are subdural hematoma, craniosynostosis, slit ventricle syndrome, and low intracranial pressure syndrome.  These occur sequentially at different age groups, but approximate averages of incidence and time of occurrence after first shunt reveal an overall incidence of 10%-12% for at least one of these appearing at 6.5 years after shunting.  The basic etiology, diagnosis, and variety of treatment modalities available are reviewed, including the need for shunt closing intracranial pressure control.  Included is a hydrocephalus program designed to minimize the need for long-term extracranial shunts and to maximize therapeutic intracranial procedures for hydrocephalus.
Coronoid process elongation in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) after experimentally induced mandibular hypomobility. A cephalometric and histologic study.  The present study provided an experimental model that allowed a cephalometric and histologic analysis of craniofacial growth in monkeys with induced translatory impairment of the mandibular condyle.  Cauterization was performed anterior to the joint in nine experimental rhesus monkeys, while eight animals served as control subjects.  The experimental procedure produced mandibular hypomobility in six animals, in three by means of temporomandibular joint ankylosis and in three by means of dense scar tissue formation anterior to the joint.  In the remaining three experimental animals no restriction of mandibular mobility was created.  Mandibular hypomobility was found to induce elongation of the coronoid process and was also associated with bone deposition in the gonial region.  In contrast, normal remodeling of the gonial region was found in the experimental animals with normal range of movements and in the control animals.
Problems and solutions of pedicle screw plate fixation of lumbar spine.  Fifty-seven patients with low back pain and sciatica of various causes were reviewed with reference to problems associated with pedicle plate fixation of the lumbar spine.  Eleven percent of patients had neurologic problems postoperatively and 3.5% (two patients) had severe sensory impairments.  All patients had this complication in the early phases of the study.  Of 297 screws, 17 broke, ie, 5.7%.  These breakages occurred in 12 of 57 patients (21%).  In patients with spondylolisthesis, the degree of slip correction averaged 53% postoperatively, which decreased to 35% at the 1-year follow-up.  Slip angle was maintained after correction.  Pedicle screw plate fixation is an effective form of immobilization of the lumbar spine used in achieving arthrodesis.  The surgeon must be fully trained in methodology.  It is recommended that screw and plate materials be improved to prevent screw breakage.
Scoliosis in trisomy 18.  Patients with trisomy 18 typically present with multiple congenital anomalies and most die within the first year.  However, long-term survivors are not uncommon.  Seventeen patients with trisomy 18 were evaluated to study the development of scoliosis associated with this disorder.  There were 13 females and 4 males with ages ranging from birth to 22 years.  Twelve patients died by age 2.  None developed scoliosis or had vertebral anomalies.  The five patients who survived beyond age 2 developed scoliosis.  Curve progression was demonstrated in the patients who returned for follow-up.  Bracing was not well tolerated in two patients with curves of 48 degrees and 58 degrees.  Both had poor motor control and sitting ability.  One patient with a 30 degree curve was successfully managed by bracing.  Another patient with a severe scoliosis was successfully fused with anterior and posterior instrumentation.  Patients with trisomy 18 should be carefully evaluated for scoliosis.  Scoliosis in the older child, surviving beyond age 2, may be progressive and difficult to manage.
Complete heart block and severe aortic incompetence in relapsing polychondritis: clinicopathologic findings.  We describe a patient with relapsing polychondritis who developed fatal cardiac involvement comprising complete heart block, acute aortic incompetence, and cardiovascular collapse.  Pathologic studies showed fibrosis of the cardiac conducting system and necrotizing inflammation of the aortic valve, features not previously described in relapsing polychondritis, as well as evidence of coronary artery vasculitis.
Charcot's disease in diabetic patients. Correct diagnosis can prevent progressive deformity.  Although Charcot's disease and its association with diabetes have been described many times in the literature, it is still often misdiagnosed and incorrectly treated as osteomyelitis, arthritis, or gout.  The best safeguard is a high index of suspicion.  A warm, swollen foot in a diabetic patient with long-standing neuropathy without local or systemic signs of infection must be considered Charcot's disease until proven otherwise.  The principal treatment is total abstinence from putting weight on the foot until warmth, swelling, and redness subside.  Protective weight-bearing methods may then be slowly instituted.
Diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs of young children with gait disturbance.  The diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs was evaluated using 84 outpatients 1 to 5 years of age with gait disturbance whose lower extremities appeared physically normal.  Chief complaints included limp (65 children [77%]), refusal to walk or stand (37 children [44%]), and frequent falling (6 children [7%]).  A total of 43 children (51%) had more than one complaint.  The mean age of patients was 26 months and the median duration of symptoms was 1 day.  Trauma was reported in 43 (51%) cases and fever in 14 (17%).  Results of radiographical studies appeared normal in 81 children (96%), demonstrated soft tissue swelling in 2 children, and revealed a bony island in 1 child.  In 1 patient admitted to the hospital for failure to thrive and irritability, and whose radiographic results appeared normal, findings consistent with osteomyelitis later developed.  Of the remaining children, 68 (81%) were available for follow-up observation 4 to 28 months after the initial visit and all reported spontaneous resolution of the initial complaint.  It was concluded that in a well-appearing child with an otherwise normal physical examination results, an acute gait disturbance is likely to be a self-limiting condition and radiographs are unlikely to contribute to the diagnosis.
Minor anatomic abnormalities of the hip joint persisting from childhood and their possible relationship to idiopathic osteoarthrosis.  A retrospective review was made of roentgenograms from 30 patients with idiopathic osteoarthrosis of the hip.  The roentgenograms were taken before the onset or very early in the course of the disease.  Nine measurements were made on the anteroposterior and cross-table lateral roentgenograms.  These were compared to 54 hips from normal patients.  Twenty-nine of 30 patients had abnormal measurements, with as many as seven in a single individual, when compared to normal patients.  There were no abnormalities in the control group.  The availability of lateral views allowed an additional dimension to be added to previous studies in the literature.  This study lends further support to the biomechanical theory of the etiology of idiopathic osteoarthrosis of the hip.
Bone response to hydroxyapatite particles of different shapes in rabbit tibia.  Four holes drilled in rabbit tibia were filled with different commercial hydroxyapatite products.  All particles caused a mild inflammatory reaction, which disappeared in 2 months.  The line between the new and original bone was visible even after 6 months.  No differences in healing pattern were discovered for the various products.  When bone cavities are filled with hydroxyapatite particles, the shape of the particles does not seem to affect the healing process.
Aluminum accumulation during treatment with aluminum hydroxide and dialysis in children and young adults with chronic renal disease   BACKGROUND.  The control of hyperphosphatemia is a major clinical problem in patients with chronic renal failure receiving regular dialysis treatment.  Despite continuing concern about aluminum toxicity, aluminum-containing antacids are still used in many of these patients as phosphate-binding agents.  Although maximal acceptable doses of aluminum hydroxide have been recommended, the safety and efficacy of these guidelines have not been evaluated.  METHODS.  Seventeen children and young adults (mean [+/- SD] age, 14.1 +/- 3.7 years) undergoing regular peritoneal dialysis were randomly assigned to treatment with either aluminum hydroxide (n = 7; maximal dose, 30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day) or calcium carbonate (n = 10; dose range, 2.5 to 12 g per day, according to serum phosphorus levels).  Aluminum retention was assessed by serial measurements of plasma aluminum, deferoxamine-infusion tests, and measurements of bone aluminum content during a mean (+/- SD) follow-up of 13 +/- 2 months.  The evolution of bone disease was also evaluated.  RESULTS.  Plasma aluminum levels and the increment in plasma aluminum after infusion of deferoxamine increased from base-line values in the patients treated with aluminum hydroxide, and aluminum-related bone disease developed in one patient.  Serum phosphorus levels remained higher and serum calcium levels lower in the patients receiving aluminum hydroxide than in those receiving calcium carbonate.  The skeletal lesions of secondary hyperparathyroidism improved in 7 of 10 patients receiving calcium carbonate but persisted or progressed in 6 of 7 patients given aluminum hydroxide (P less than 0.025).  CONCLUSIONS.  Aluminum hydroxide is less effective than calcium carbonate as a phosphate-binding agent for the control of hyperphosphatemia and is associated with aluminum retention in children and young adults with chronic renal failure who are receiving dialysis therapy.
Hemodialysis-related amyloidomas of bone.  Lytic bone lesions secondary to amyloid deposition are a recently described complication of long-term hemodialysis.  The authors refer to these tumorlike deposits as amyloidomas in a review of the subject and four proved cases.  This entity typically appears as multiple well-defined, juxta-articular lytic lesions without matrix calcification.  The duration of hemodialysis is probably the greatest risk factor for development of these intraosseous amyloidomas.  Ultrastructurally, this new type of amyloid originates from beta 2-microglobulin, a low-molecular-weight serum protein that is not filtered by standard dialysis membranes.
Fatigue in postpolio syndrome.  A survey was conducted to better understand complaints of fatigue in patients previously diagnosed as having polio.  Eighty-six individuals with postpolio syndrome and 20 healthy controls completed a questionnaire about their fatigue, the Beck Depression Inventory, and the CAGE questionnaire.  The results showed that fatigue in postpolio syndrome usually occurred on a daily basis and increased in severity as the day progressed.  Both the study group and controls described their fatigue as tiredness and a lack of energy.  However, physical weakness was reported only in the postpolio group.  Minimal physical exercise exacerbated fatigue in 48% of the postpolio group, whereas it diminished fatigue in 70% of the controls and in 15% of the postpolio group.  Twenty-seven percent of the postpolio group and none of the controls reported mild to moderate depressive symptoms.  However, depression, age, alcohol abuse, and employment status did not significantly affect the differences between groups in reported prevalence or description of chronic fatigue.  Criteria to separate psychologic from organic causes of fatigue and treatment interventions are discussed.
Treatment of malunions and mal-nonunions of the femur and tibia by detailed preoperative planning and the Ilizarov techniques.  Internal fixation has been the mainstay of treatment for post-traumatic deformities.  External fixation has been used for correction of deformity in malunions and mal-nonunions.  Treatment goals of achieving complete deformity correction with restoration or improvement of function were successful in this very complex group of malunions despite the numerous problems, obstacles, and complications of treatment.
Clinical screening for collagen defects in connective tissue diseases.  The defects in type I collagen structure or synthesis that produce all four types of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) type VII and the defects in type III collagen structure in EDS type IV can be detected by analysis of collagens produced by fibroblastic cells cultured from affected individuals.  Quantitative defects in synthesis of type I collagen are seen in OI type I and qualitative defects of type I collagen characterize OI type II, OI type III, and OI type IV and EDS type VII.  EDS type IV results from qualitative type III collagen defects.  All of the disorders are inherited typically in an autosomal dominant fashion so that recurrence among offspring of normal parents usually results from germline mosaicism for the mutation in one parent.  Analysis of type I and type III collagen synthesized by cultured chorionic villus cells is used for prenatal diagnosis of these disorders.
The clinical course of osteoporosis in anorexia nervosa. A longitudinal study of cortical bone mass.  Women with anorexia nervosa have reduced bone mass and may develop fractures.  Neither the pathophysiology of this osteoporosis nor its natural history is known.  To study the clinical course of osteoporosis, we followed up 27 women with anorexia nervosa for a median of 25 months (range, 9 to 53 months).  At study entry, cortical bone density, measured by single-photon absorptiometry of the radial shaft, was low (mean +/- SD, 0.63 +/- 0.07 g/cm2) and inversely related to the duration of amenorrhea (r = -0.49).  During follow-up, most patients gained weight (n = 19), took calcium supplements (n = 16), and exercised regularly (n = 22), but fewer than half reached 80% or more of ideal body weight (n = 11), resumed menses (n = 6), or received estrogen (n = 4).  Cortical bone density was stable during follow-up for the group as a whole; the mean annual change (+/- SD) was +0.005 (+/- .015) g/cm2 (95% confidence interval, -0.0009 to +0.0109).  There was no significant difference in the mean change in bone density between women who attained 80% of ideal weight and those who did not or between groups who did or did not regain menses, take estrogen or calcium, or exercise vigorously.  Four fractures were clinically observed in three women during follow-up.  The rate of 0.05 nonspine fractures per person-year (95% confidence interval, 0.02 to 0.13) exceeds that of normal women in this age range (relative risk, 7.1; 95% confidence interval, 3.2 to 18.5).  We conclude that reductions in cortical bone density appear not to be rapidly reversed by recovery from anorexia nervosa and that anorectic women may have an increased risk of fracture.
Vascular and nonvascular expression of INCAM-110. A target for mononuclear leukocyte adhesion in normal and inflamed human tissues.  Inducible cell adhesion molecule 110 (INCAM-110), is a 110-kd adhesion receptor for lymphocytes and monocytes identified on cytokine-activated endothelium.  Using immunoperoxidase techniques, little or no INCAM-110 was detected on endothelium in normal human tissues.  In contrast, INCAM-110 was expressed in postcapillary venules in a variety of active inflammatory processes.  In acute appendicitis, INCAM-110 was found coincident with strong expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 (ELAM-1), a cytokine-inducible molecule that functions in neutrophil adhesion.  However, in certain chronic inflammatory processes (eg, sarcoidosis), INCAM-110 was observed without simultaneous ELAM-1 expression.  Anti-INCAM-110 antibody E1/6 also marked several extravascular cell types, including lymphoid dendritic cells, some tissue macrophages, synovial lining cells, and reactive mesothelial cells.  These data suggest a role for endothelial INCAM-110 in the pathophysiology of both acute and chronic inflammatory reactions.  Furthermore INCAM-110 may function as an adhesion molecule for mononuclear leukocytes in a variety of extravascular sites.
Impairment of specific host defense mechanisms in patients with chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis.  We studied both in vivo and in vitro specific host defense mechanisms in patients suffering from chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis (n = 26).  The cell-mediated immunity in vivo was impaired as indicated by the reduced reactivity in the delayed type hypersensitivity skin test.  The concanavalin A or phytohemagglutinin-induced T-cell proliferation in vitro was markedly decreased in comparison to healthy donors.  In contrast, B-cell proliferation stimulated by Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I was not altered.  While the absolute lymphocyte counts and the percentage of T, B, and O cells were within the normal range, nine out of the 26 patients showed a significantly diminished ratio of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.  Humoral immunity in the patients was less affected as assessed by the unchanged serum levels of immunoglobulins (Ig).  However, the T-cell dependent polyclonal Ig synthesis after in vitro stimulation with pokeweed mitogen was suppressed.  Our results provide evidence that cell-mediated immune functions are predominantly impaired in patients with post-traumatic osteomyelitis which may contribute to the persistence of the localized bone infection.
CD5 positive B lymphocytes in seronegative juvenile arthritis.  We investigated the levels of circulating CD5+ B cells in 43 patients with seronegative, HLA-B27 negative juvenile arthritis, 7 patients with juvenile dermatomyositis (DM) and 16 children with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).  We found that CD5+ B cell levels were high in juvenile arthritis (p less than 0.01), normal in juvenile DM and decreased in SLE (p less than 0.01) compared to 33 age matched controls.  In juvenile arthritis, the increase of CD5+ B cells appeared to be independent of discuss activity and was present in all the onset types except in a subset of patient with late onset pauciarthritis.
Accelerated transmural gradients of energy compound metabolism resulting from left ventricular hypertrophy.  Eighteen dogs underwent transmural left ventricular biopsies for adenosine triphosphate and suturing of the noncoronary cusp, creating valvular aortic stenosis.  Three months after aortic stenosis and the subsequent development of left ventricular hypertrophy, animals underwent repeat transmural left ventricular biopsies followed by total myocardial ischemia at 37 degrees C.  Left ventricular tissue samples for adenosine triphosphate and lactate levels were determined at 15-minute intervals and compared with 15 control animals.  No significant difference between subendocardial and subepicardial adenosine triphosphate levels was found between left ventricular samples taken before left ventricular hypertrophy and 3 months after left ventricular hypertrophy.  Significant differences in adenosine triphosphate utilization occurred between subendocardial and subepicardial layers in control and left ventricular hypertrophy myocardium, however.  The gradient between the subendocardium and the subepicardium was significantly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy (p less than 0.05).  Significant differences also occurred within the same layer when left ventricular hypertrophy and control groups were compared.  During total ischemia, lactate concentration was significantly greater within the subendocardium than within the subepicardium in left ventricular hypertrophy.  The onset of ischemic contracture was 48.2 +/- 2.1 minutes in left ventricular hypertrophy versus 62.3 +/- 1.8 minutes in control hearts (p less than 0.01).  Subendocardial intramyocardial pressure increased significantly earlier than subepicardial in both left ventricular hypertrophy and control hearts.  Adenosine triphosphate was used, and lactate accumulated more rapidly in animals with a more pronounced hemodynamic gradient.  These data show that after left ventricular hypertrophy, adenosine triphosphate stores in the subendocardium and the subepicardium are unchanged from control values, yet the rates of adenosine triphosphate utilization and lactate accumulation during total ischemia are significantly increased.  Furthermore, the subendocardial to subepicardial gradient of adenosine triphosphate utilization during ischemia found in normal hearts is markedly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy.
Composite reconstruction for chest wall and scalp using multiple ribs-latissimus dorsi osteomyocutaneous flaps as pedicled and free flaps.  A composite flap is presented based on the latissimus dorsi myocutaneous unit together with the underlying ninth to eleventh ribs.  Three patients are presented.  In two, a full-thickness chest-wall defect was present.  In one, a full-thickness scalp and cranial defect was present.  Use of the composite osteomyocutaneous latissimus dorsi free flap as a pedicled flap in two patients and as a free flap in one patient resulted in successful definitive reconstruction in all with no complications.  This procedure necessitates no transplantation of soft tissue prior to bone grafting to maintain local vascularity, so the simultaneous one-stage reconstruction of an osseous-soft-tissue defect becomes possible easily.
The appearance of the piriformis muscle syndrome in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. A case report and review of the literature.  The piriformis syndrome (PS) is a controversial cause of hip pain because of the lack of objective findings to support the diagnosis.  Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed PS in a 27-year-old woman.  This case may be one of the first reports in the literature on a piriformis muscle enlargement documented by CT and MR imaging.
Fusion levels and hook patterns in thoracic scoliosis with Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation.  This study reports the results of treatment of adolescents with King Types 2, 3, and 4 idiopathic curves using Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation.  Imbalance was seen in Types 2 and 4 curves when distraction direction hook patterns crossing the thoracolumbar junction were employed.  Imbalance was not seen when a modified hook pattern employing compressing forces across the thoracolumbar junction was employed.  No imbalance was observed in Type 3 curves using the basic right thoracic curve hook pattern.  In Type 4 curves, a second modified hook pattern is required to obtain improved correction and balance.  The mechanism of production of imbalance is explained by a three dimensional analysis of the deformity and of the forces generated by the Cotrel-Dubousset system.
Trigger finger secondary to anomalous lumbrical insertion: a case report and review of the literature.  Trigger finger is a relatively common clinical entity, most frequently caused by stenosing tenosynovitis.  Several other conditions not related to tenosynovitis also have been described as a cause of triggering, and these have been reviewed.  We present a rare anomaly of the fourth lumbrical muscle insertion as a cause of triggering of the right little finger.  This was completely relieved following excision of the anomalous muscle.  This rare anatomic variant should be added to the list of potential causes of trigger finger.
Ultrasonic level diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation.  Although the use of diagnostic ultrasound to measure the spinal canal has been proposed, the value of ultrasound for lumbar disc herniation has not been yet fully assessed.  The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the effectiveness of ultrasound in the level diagnosis of herniated nucleus pulposus.  Prospective ultrasound examinations were performed on 80 consecutive patients with clinically suspected lumbar disc herniation.  In 41 discs of those 40 patients with surgically confirmed lumbar disc herniation, there were 32 discs (78%) with true-positive ultrasound diagnoses, 37 discs (90%) with true-positive myelographic diagnoses, and 20 patients (50%) with true-positive neurologic diagnoses.  Conversely, ultrasound diagnoses showed positive echogram in 24 (60%) of 40 nonoperative patients.  These results suggest that ultrasound is of value as an aid for diagnosing the level of lumbar disc herniation.
Tired, weak, or in need of rest: fatigue among general practice attenders   OBJECTIVES--To determine the prevalence and associations of symptoms of fatigue.  DESIGN--Questionnaire survey.  SETTING--London general practice.  PARTICIPANTS--611 General practice attenders.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Scores on a fatigue questionnaire and reasons given for fatigue.  RESULTS--10.2% Of men (17/167) and 10.6% of women (47/444) had substantial fatigue for one month or more.  Age, occupation, and marital status exerted minor effects.  Subjects attributed fatigue equally to physical and non-physical causes.  Physical ill health, including viral infection, was associated with more severe fatigue.  Women rather than men blamed family responsibilities for their fatigue.  The profile of persistent fatigue did not differ from that of short duration.  Only one person met criteria for the chronic fatigue syndrome.  CONCLUSIONS--Fatigue is a common complaint among general practice attenders and can be severe.  Patients may attribute this to physical, psychological, and social stress.
Scapholunate advanced collapse: a common wrist abnormality in calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease.  Scapholunate advanced collapse (SLAC) is a pattern of wrist malalignment that has been attributed to posttraumatic or spontaneous osteoarthritis of the wrist.  Its features, however, also have been observed in patients with idiopathic calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystal deposition disease.  To determine the frequency and characteristics of SLAC in this disease, the authors reviewed wrist radiographs in 168 well-documented cases of this disorder.  Forty-four of the cases (26%) revealed wrist abnormalities typical of SLAC.  Associated findings included bilateral involvement (63%); calcification in or near the triangular fibrocartilage (70%); scapholunate widening or dissociation (70%); and arthropathies of the trapezioscaphoid (57%), metacarpophalangeal (second through fifth) (52%), first carpometacarpal (40%), and radiolunate (14%) joints.  Results strongly suggest that CPPD crystal deposition disease is one of the major causes of SLAC.  Furthermore, radiolunate arthropathy was found in 14% of the patients with SLAC and CPPD crystal deposition disease, which is different from other observations.
Surface electrical stimulation versus brace in treatment of idiopathic scoliosis.  Surface electrical stimulation using the ScoliTron device was applied to 40 adolescent patients for treatment of idiopathic scoliosis.  Adequate follow-up was available for 30 of these patients.  The overall failure rate was 15 of 30 or 50%.  Due to curve progression while using the ScoliTron, these patients either went on to a fusion (9 of 15) or were changed to a brace (6 of 15).  The remaining 15 patients were considered successes with no curve progression (10 of 30 or 33%) or successful/failures with slight curve progression not requiring a change in treatment (5 of 30 or 17%).  None of the various parameters analyzed were found to be useful indicators of successful treatment using the ScoliTron device.  Electrical stimulation was found to be ineffective in preventing curve progression for idiopathic scoliosis.
A useful technique for measurement of back strength in osteoporotic and elderly patients.  Improvement of back extensor strength (BES) can be used as a therapeutic method for patients with chronic back pain and osteoporosis.  The method of evaluation must be reliable and accurate without compromising the condition of the patient.  We report the development of a back isometric dynamometer (BID-2000) designed specifically by two of us to address these concerns in elderly patients with osteopenia or osteoporosis.  As the demographics of the general population change, increasing numbers of patients will need the type of monitoring that the BID-2000 provides.  Aging has been shown to cause a reduction in the number of functional muscle motor units.  To examine this effect on BES, we tested 50 normal, healthy women who were 30 to 79 years old.  Proper testing of BES in patients with fragile vertebrae should include isometric measurement in the prone position, maneuverability of the device to allow comfortable positioning of the patient, and simplicity of technique to minimize repetitious performance of maximal contraction.  The BID-2000 incorporates each of these features and also provides meaningful results inexpensively.  The device offers a safe, reliable (coefficient of variation = 2.33%), and valid (P = 0.001) method of evaluation.  The results of our study demonstrated moderate, steady reduction of BES with increasing age and with each successive decade.
Psychosocial, functional, and quality of life assessment of patients with posttraumatic fracture nonunion, chronic refractory osteomyelitis, and lower extremity amputation.  One hundred nine patients with long-bone fracture nonunion, chronic refractory osteomyelitis, or posttraumatic amputation were evaluated for the impact of chronic disability on quality of life, as measured by the Arthritis Impact Measurement Scale (AIMS) and the Psychosocial Adjustment to Illness Scale (PAIS).  A self-administered PAIS for spouses assessed psychosocial adjustment of spouses or significant others.  A final questionnaire ranked the reasons for either continuing medical therapy or accepting amputation.  The PAIS scores differed significantly between osteomyelitis patients and both nonunion and amputation patients (p less than .05).  The presence or absence of pain produced significant differences in AIMS and PAIS scores of nonunion and osteomyelitis patients (p less than .05).  Subscale analysis of AIMS scores revealed significant differences among the three groups in health perception and scale of orthopedic problem: osteomyelitis patients were more severely affected than nonunion or amputation patients.  The PAIS detected no statistically significant difference in psychosocial adjustment of spouses of patients in the three population groups.  The most common reason for continuing medical and surgical management of nonunion and osteomyelitis was expectation for cure.  The amputee group chose ablation to avoid further treatment.  Differences in psychosocial and functional ability were related to disease diagnosis, pain, status of fracture healing, and timing of amputation.
Cryptic osteoid osteoma of the cranium: case report.  Osteoid osteoma is an uncommon benign tumor of bone that rarely involves the cranium.  If often causes local pain that is worse at night, characteristically relieved by aspirin, and does not correlate with the size of the lesion.  The diagnosis depends on skull radiographs and computed tomography.  This report describes a case in which radiographs showed nothing abnormal.  The diagnosis and operative localization were accomplished with radionuclide bone scanning.  Thus, the possibility of radiographically cryptic lesions must be considered in the evaluation of atypical head pain syndromes.
A modification of the Health Assessment Questionnaire for the spondyloarthropathies [published erratum appears in J Rheumatol 1991 Feb;18(2):305]  A functional status measure was developed by adding 5 items to the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ-S), and compared to anthropometric measures of spinal mobility.  Forty-four patients with spondylitis were evaluated by the HAQ-S and measures of spine flexibility (finger-to-floor, Smythe test, neck rotation, and chest expansion).  Modification of the HAQ raised the mean difficulty score by 29% from 0.38 (SD = 0.49) to 0.49 (SD = 0.51), indicating increased ability to capture functional limitations.  Neck rotation correlated most strongly with the HAQ-S score (r = -0.57), which suggests an important role for this measure in clinical management and followup of spondylitis.
Periprosthetic chronic inflammation characterized through the measurement of superoxide anion production by synovial-derived macrophages.  Periprosthetic macrophages were isolated from the synovium of primary and revision arthroplasty patients.  Inflammatory activity was determined by the level of superoxide (O2-) production de novo and in response to phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) stimulation.  Nonstimulated primary arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 2.54 +/- 2.04 pmoles of O2-/minute/10(5) cells.  When identical reaction tubes were stimulated with PMA, O2- levels increased to 5.76 +/- 3.77 pmol of O2-/minute/10(5) cells.  Nonstimulated revision arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 3.26 +/- 2.02 pmol of O2-/minute/10(5) cells during this ten-minute time period.  When identical reaction tubes were stimulated with PMA, O2- levels increased to 3.98 +/- 2.52 pmol of O2-/minute/10(5) cells.  The difference in the ratio of O2- production in response to stimulation between primary and revision groups was statistically significant.  The observation of a chronic moderate level of activation and the lack of responsiveness to a potent stimulator suggests that macrophage inflammatory activity is down-regulated in periprosthetic synovium.
Open depressed skull fracture missed on computed tomography: a case report.  A case of an open depressed skull fracture that was missed on standard computed tomographic (CT) scan is presented.  The fracture was seen on a CT generated lateral scout film, and after repositioning the gantry, further CT images clearly showed the fracture and underlying brain injury.  The authors recommend that all patients with head trauma undergoing head CT have either a CT generated lateral scout film or a lateral skull radiograph to assess the vertex of the skull, an area poorly visualized on standard axial images.
Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion.  A retrospective review of 94 patients who had undergone anterior cervical discectomy and fusion was performed to analyze the result in patients who had a diagnosis of posterolateral spondylosis, disc herniation, or both.  Although in 23 of 94 patients additional adjacent asymptomatic levels of spondylosis were noted, only the symptomatic levels were addressed in the 94 cases.  Postoperatively two cases of dysphagia were noted, as well as a 4% pseudarthrosis rate.  There was an 88% good or excellent result when no additional spondylosis was present, but only a 60% good or excellent result when just the symptomatic levels were addressed, leaving unoperated adjacent levels of spondylosis.
Lumbar trapezoid plate for lumbar spondylolisthesis. A clinical study on preoperative and postoperative instability.  The authors studied the effects of a "lumbar trapezoid plate" (spinal plate and pedicle screwing), performed for lumbar spondylolisthesis, observing the effect on the remaining adjacent discs with regard to preoperative and postoperative instability.  The authors examined changes in preoperative and postoperative lumbar ROM (range of motion), displacement of motor unit levels, and occurrence of instability in the remaining discs, such as horizontal and rotational displacement, in 26 patients who were followed up for a mean of 29 postoperative months; 13 patients had spondylolytic spondylolisthesis and 13 patients degenerative spondylolisthesis.  The authors studied the effects of the fused vertebral angle and reduction of spondylolisthesis on the remaining upper and lower adjacent discs and the preoperative and postoperative fused disc heights.  Intervertebral fusion must affect the remaining adjacent discs, but compensatory function of the remaining motor unit level was more influenced by the fused intervertebral angle than by repositioning of the spondylolisthesis.  Fusion at a physiologically lordotic position is quite necessary.  For this purpose, it is considered important to prevent grafted bones of the posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF) from collapse and to maintain the achieved alignment of the lumbar spine.
Spinal cord compression due to pagetic spinal stenosis with involvement of extradural soft tissues: a case report.  Although Paget's disease of the spine may cause neurological dysfunction by bone hypertrophy or collapse, it is very rare for the disease process to extend into the soft tissues of the spinal canal.  We report a case of Paget's disease causing ossification of the ligamentum flavum and extradural fat, thus causing spinal cord compression.  Decompressive laminectomy was carried out, resulting in neurological improvement.  In such cases surgical decompression should be followed by therapy with calcitonin.
A prospective double blind dummy placebo controlled study comparing triamcinolone hexacetonide injection with oral diclofenac 50 mg TDS in patients with rotator cuff tendinitis.  A prospective double blind placebo controlled study was carried out to compare the effects of subacromial injection of triamcinolone and oral diclofenac in patients with rotator cuff tendinitis over a 4-week period.  Both forms of treatment were superior to placebo in reducing pain, improving active abduction and reducing functional limitation.  Triamcinolone showed the greatest effect in these respects, and was significantly superior to diclofenac when patients showing improvements in all 3 variables together (responders) were considered.
Natural history of nontraumatic avascular necrosis of the femoral head.  We studied the natural history of nontraumatic avascular necrosis of the femoral head (ANFH) in 115 hips in 87 patients, 69 steroid-induced, 21 related to misuse of alcohol and 25 idiopathic.  The average length of follow-up was over five years.  Collapse occurred most often when the focus of bone necrosis occupied the weight-bearing surface of the femoral head.  Flatness of the head due to subchondral fracture was an early manifestation of collapse.  Classification into six types based upon the radiographic findings provided an accurate prognosis for individual cases of ANFH which is useful in planning treatment and in assessing its outcome.
Anterior cervical plate fixation with the titanium hollow screw plate system. A preliminary report.  Morscher, of Switzerland, has developed an anterior cervical spine plate system (THSP) that does not require screw purchase of the posterior cortex.  This design eliminates potential neurologic complications usually associated with the anterior plate system, but maintains the mechanical advantages of internal fixation.  The authors reviewed 13 consecutive patients in whom the THSP system was applied.  Indications for the use of this device included acute trauma in three patients, trauma of more than 6 weeks' duration in five patients, and spondylosis in five patients.  Fifteen plates and 58 screws were placed, with no screws purchasing the posterior cortex.  Postoperative immobilization varied from no immobilization to four-poster brace.  With a mean follow-up of 13 months, all 13 patients went on to fusion.  One patient had screws placed in the disc rather than in bone and went on to malunion.  In all other patients, radiographs did not demonstrate screw migration, screw-bone lucency, graft dislodgement, or malunion.  No patient suffered neurologic injury as a result of this device.  The THSP system facilitates reliable fusion with minimal complications.  Its use should be considered in multilevel anterior spine defects, posttraumatic cervical kyphosis, and cervical fractures with posterior disruption requiring anterior fusion.
The neuromuscular pathology of the Eosinophilia-Myalgia syndrome.  The Eosinophilia-Myalgia Syndrome (EMS) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of L-tryptophan.  We studied the lesions of skeletal muscle, peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of EMS.  Perimyositis was severe in four, moderate in two, mild in three and absent in three cases.  The lesions contained many eosinophils, T-helper cells, mast cells and activated macrophages.  Type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one, this was the only pathologic finding.  Severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies.  Indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs (two cases) and neurogenic atrophy (one case).  Phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one.  Fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one.
A protocol for management of temporomandibular joint ankylosis.  A management protocol for temporomandibular joint (TMJ) ankylosis consisting of 1) aggressive resection, 2) ipsilateral coronoidectomy, 3) contralateral coronoidectomy when necessary, 4) lining of the TMJ with temporalis fascia or cartilage, 5) reconstruction of the ramus with a costochondral graft, 6) rigid fixation, and 7) early mobilization and aggressive physiotherapy is presented.  The protocol was retrospectively evaluated in the first 14 patients (18 involved TMJs) treated and followed postoperatively for at least 1 year.  The facial asymmetries present in all unilateral cases remained corrected.  The mean maximum postoperative interincisal opening at 1 year was 37.5 mm (292.36% mean increase), lateral excursions were present in 16 of 18 joints (vs 0 of 18 joints preoperatively), and pain was present in 2 of 18 joints (vs 13 of 18 preoperatively).  The results of this study indicate that this protocol is effective for treatment of TMJ ankylosis.
Pauwels osteotomy for nonunions of the femoral neck.  The concept of the Pauwels osteotomy seems to be a valuable method of treating nonunions of the femoral neck.  If there is concomitant avascular necrosis, the involved area should be small and the patient younger than 60 years old.
Predictability of difficult laryngoscopy in patients with long-term diabetes mellitus.  The laryngoscopic conditions of 62 diabetic patients who underwent renal transplantation or vitrectomy were studied.  Anaesthesia was induced with fentanyl and a sleep dose of thiopentone.  Conditions for direct laryngoscopy after 0.1 mg/kg vecuronium were scored from 0 to 3 (easy-very difficult).  All patients gave their palm prints after operation which were scored: 0, phalangeal areas completely visible; 1, phalangeal areas partly visible; 2, phalangeal areas hardly visible; 3, only fingertips printed.  The incidence of difficult laryngoscopy was 31%.  The higher the scores in the palm test, the more difficult was the laryngoscopy.  The correlation coefficient between these two factors was r = 0.6 (p less than 0.001).  Our study shows that joint rigidity possibly caused by tissue glycosylation may also involve laryngeal and cervical areas resulting in a strenuous laryngoscopy.  A defective palm print is a warning sign for difficult laryngoscopy.
High concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol stimulate trabecular bone formation in adult female rats.  Although the effects of low concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol (E2) on bone formation and resorption are well described, little is known of the effects of E2 on bone at concentrations that circulate during pregnancy.  We, therefore, investigated the effects of administration of high dose E2 to 3-month-old female Wistar rats on biochemical and histomorphometric indices of bone formation and resorption.  Animals receiving exogenous E2 (4 mg/kg.day for 17 days; n = 9) showed a mean serum E2 concentration of 17.5 +/- 2.9 nM, compared with 0.6 +/- 0.2 nM in those receiving vehicle alone (n = 10).  The bone formation rate, measured at the proximal tibial metaphysis after the administration of double fluorochrome labels, was greatly increased in the E2 group (13.6 +/- 2.0 x 10(-2) microns3/microns2.day) compared to controls (3.9 +/- 0.9), as was serum alkaline phosphatase (E2, 133.6 +/- 10.1 IU; controls, 87.5 +/- 5.5).  This increase in the rate of bone formation was associated with a significant increase in trabecular bone volume.  E2 treatment did not affect urinary hydroxyproline excretion or histomorphometric indices of bone resorption.  These findings suggest that high concentrations of E2 strongly stimulate the formation of trabecular bone.  This may represent an important mechanism by which calcium stores are accumulated during pregnancy in rats, in anticipation of the mineral requirements of lactation.
Extensor tendon rupture after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid positive ulnar variance.  Rupture of the extensor tendon after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid, positive ulnar variance is uncommon.  Eight cases were seen in the last five years.  They included five men and three women, whose ages ranged from 54 to 82 years (average, 70 years).  In all the cases, roentgenograms revealed osteoarthrotic changes in the wrist and dorsal subluxation or dislocation of the ulnar heads.  Seven cases had operations.  Friction with the dorsally subluxated or dislocated ulnar head and the osteophytes surrounding it caused these tendons to rupture.  It was impossible to use end-to-end sutures, so tendon transfers or tendon grafts were performed.  The patients were evaluated one to four years after surgery.  Three patients complained of some disability in their daily lives, notably, limited flexion of their fingers.  It is important that during surgery the reconstructed tendons should not be strained excessively.
Effect of a single infusion of aminohydroxypropylidene on calcium and bone metabolism in healthy volunteers monitored during 2 months.  Recently, bisphosphonates have been used to prevent postmenopausal bone loss.  As the effects of bisphosphonates on normal bone metabolism are unknown, 3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene-1,1-diphosphonate (APD) was studied in healthy subjects.  The effects of a single 20-mg APD infusion on biochemical parameters of calcium and bone metabolism were investigated during 2 months in 10 healthy male volunteers.  This single moderate dose of APD reduced biochemical parameters of bone resorption during the time of follow-up.  After 2 months, urinary hydroxyproline excretion was still below the basal level.  The decreased serum calcium levels did not return to basal values.  Biochemical parameters of bone formation, serum alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin, showed a slight increase during the first month after stimulation of the parathyroids and a corresponding increase in serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D.  These formation parameters decreased thereafter, probably representing coupling between bone resorption and bone formation.
The painful shoulder: Part II. Intrinsic disorders and impingement syndrome.  Intrinsic disorders that can cause shoulder pain include arthritis, gout, pseudogout and osteonecrosis.  In its mildest form, impingement syndrome may cause only minimal discomfort.  At its worst, impingement syndrome may lead to rotator cuff tear.  Bicipital tendinitis and rupture of the biceps tendon may also be associated with impingement.  Early rehabilitative intervention is important.  Physical therapy is directed toward restoring range of motion and muscle strength.
Association of Treacher Collins syndrome and translocation 6p21.31/16p13.11: exclusion of the locus from these candidate regions.  Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS) is an autosomal dominant defect of craniofacial development which has not been chromosomally localized.  We have identified a mother and two children who have TCS and also a balanced translocation t(6;16)(p21.31;p13.11), which suggested the possibility that the TCS locus might be located at one of the translocation breakpoints.  These were defined by in-situ hybridization as 6p21.31 (by using loci in the HLA complex defined by the probes p45.1DP beta 003/HLA-DPB2 and pRS5.10/HLA class I chain) and 16p13.11 (by using probes pACHF1.3.2/D16S8 and VK45/D16S131).  Pairwise and multipoint linkage analysis using localized chromosome 6 probes and chromosome 16 probes in 12 unrelated TCS families with multiple affected siblings excluded the TCS locus from proximity to both translocation breakpoints.  These data were confirmed when a third affected child, who did not exhibit the translocation, was born to the mother.
A perspective on recent trends for scoliosis correction.  The basic principles for scoliosis surgery learned during the Harrington era are still valid today.  Experience has confirmed the need for careful selection of the vertebrae to be instrumented, the value of anterior release for rigid curves in imparting convertibility of the deformity, and the importance of careful fusion techniques.  During the last decade, further development has occurred because of an increased knowledge of the biomechanical needs for the internally instrumented spine and a three-dimensional appreciation of the scoliotic curve.  Biomechanical advances have centered on an understanding of the load-sharing properties afforded by the multiple spinal purchase sites (segmental spinal instrumentation) and the value of two-rod systems linked by couplers.  These advances have provided an increased stiffness of the instrumental spine, a reduction in correction loss, improved fatigue properties of the implant, and fewer pseudarthroses.  The most important advance of the last decade is an improved awareness of the three-dimensional approach to the scoliotic deformity with the need to preserve or improve sagittal contours.  In particular, the importance of the loss of normal thoracic kyphosis or lumbar lordosis has been emphasized.  These conceptual gains have led to the development of many new instrument systems to correct deformity.  Each is associated with advantages, problems, and risks that must be understood to make intelligent choices for treatment.
Temporomandibular joint dysfunction and selected health parameters in the elderly.  Little research has focused on temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMJD) in the elderly.  The present study describes relationships between TMJD and selected health parameters in a population of 75- to 94-year-old Roman Catholic sisters (nuns).  Mental, physical, and oral assessments made on 117 sisters identified 26 with TMJD.  Among all sisters, TMJD was not associated with age, education, mental impairments, hand coordination, handgrip strength, mobility, or use of walking aids.  In 75- to 84-year-old sisters, TMJD was positively associated with self-reported arthritis (p = 0.12), edentulism (p = 0.09), and the presence of complete dentures (p = 0.05), and negatively associated with the number of teeth present (p = 0.05), especially the posterior teeth.  These associations were weaker in 85- to 94-year-old sisters.  This study suggests that TMJD is associated with the presence of complete dentures and a low number of teeth, especially the posterior teeth.
Tuberculous tenosynovitis of the wrist. Two case reports.  Tuberculosis was first described in 1756 by Acrel in a case report.  Subsequent reports of musculoskeletal tuberculosis documented the uncommon occurrence of hand and wrist involvement.  The two cases presented here demonstrate the difficulty in eradicating the organism even with modern regimens of chemotherapy.  Intraoperative Gram's stain and frozen sections were useful to rule out other etiologies.  Firm diagnosis must be established by tissue culture.  The first case appeared cured after thorough initial debridement and had no recurrence for 36 years.  While recurrences are common in patients treated with debridement alone, most appear within one year after the index procedure.  The amount of time that elapsed in this case is unusual and serves as a sobering reminder that tuberculosis may recur at a time distant from the initial procedure.  The second patient had tuberculosis diagnosed elsewhere and was treated twice with antituberculous chemotherapy.  Although the first course of therapy for six months may have been inadequate, the second course with multiple drugs for 18 months would certainly be considered adequate; yet he had a recurrence in his wrist eight months after completing treatment.  These two cases illustrate the fastidious nature of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis organism and the need for a combined treatment protocol of meticulous surgical debridement and combined chemotherapy.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value.  The sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff, glenohumeral capsule, and glenoid labrum were evaluated in ninety-one patients and fifteen asymptomatic volunteers.  Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated 100 per cent sensitivity and 95 per cent specificity in the diagnosis of complete tears, and it consistently predicted the size of the tear of the rotator cuff.  There was a definite correlation between atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle and the size of a complete, chronic tear of the rotator cuff.  The sensitivity and specificity of magnetic resonance imaging in the differentiation of tendinitis from degeneration of the cuff were 82 and 85 per cent, and in the differentiation of a normal tendon from one affected by tendinitis with signs of impingement the sensitivity and specificity were 93 and 87 per cent.  The formation of spurs around the acromion and acromiocalvicular joint correlated highly with increased age of the patient and with chronic disease of the rotator cuff.  The sensitivity and specificity of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of labral tears associated with glenohumeral instability were 88 and 93 per cent.  The study showed that high-resolution magnetic-resonance imaging is an excellent non-invasive tool in the diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff and glenohumeral instability.
Brucellar and tuberculous spondylitis. A comparative study of their clinical features.  The clinical data from 19 patients with brucellar spondylitis and 15 with tuberculous spondylitis were compared.  The former disease affects males whose occupations expose them to Brucella.  The lumbar spine is usually involved and there are other symptoms of brucellosis.  Tuberculous spondylitis is not usually accompanied by general symptoms.  The dorsal spine is more frequently affected and may exhibit vertebral collapse and paraspinal abscesses.  These differences permit a presumptive aetiological diagnosis, but the definitive diagnosis depends upon bacteriological tests.
Postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst. Case report.  A large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man.  The cyst wall, histologically composed of mature bone tissue, was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte- or fibroblast-like cells on the inside.  The ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation.
Knee function after surgical or nonsurgical treatment of acute rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament: a randomized study with a long-term follow-up period.  One hundred fifty-six patients with a total rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) were reexamined 41 to 80 months after injury.  They were randomized to three treatment groups: (1) repair and augmentation of the ACL with an iliotibial strip, (2) repair without augmentation, and (3) nonsurgical ACL treatment.  Associated injuries of menisci and other ligaments were treated in the same way for the three groups.  Two-thirds of the patients in the nonsurgically treated group complained of instability and 17% had had a subsequent reconstruction of the ACL at the follow-up examination.  The group treated with an augmented repair had a less abnormal laxity measured by a laxity-testing device.  Sixty-three percent returned to competitive sports, as compared with 27% in the nonsurgical group and 32% in the only repair group.  Relative strength of the quadriceps and hamstrings muscles were similar for all groups.  The augmented-repair group had better hop tests, reflecting a superior stability, whereas running was not affected by treatment but was correlated with the activity level.
Radiographic appearance of osteopenia.  The radiographic appearance of bone is the result of two physiologic processes: the resorption of bone and the remodeling of bone in response to the stresses applied to it.  The relative rates of these two processes will determine the structural and, therefore, the radiographic appearance of the affected bone.
Heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and other inflammatory diseases.  Heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei is an in vitro phenomenon accompanying inflammatory diseases.  We studied 62 patients with suspected polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) to determine, whether heat induced radial segmentation can help in discriminating PMR from other conditions.  At the initial presentation patients with PMR had more radial segmentation formation than patients with other inflammatory conditions.  Prednisone induced a rapid and marked decrease in radial segmentation formation in patients with PMR.  This latter finding was much less marked in patients with other inflammatory conditions.  We conclude that heat induced radial segmentation at the initial presentation and during prednisone treatment can help in discriminating PMR from other inflammatory conditions.
Arthroscopic treatment of temporomandibular joint locking resulting from disc derangement: two-year results.  This article reports 2-year postarthroscopic surgical treatment data for 18 subjects (17 female and 1 male) who had a diagnosis of restricted mandibular movement due to an internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ).  These subjects had been treated by an average of 2.1 +/- 1.1 doctors for their TMJ problem before seeing the surgeon for arthroscopic treatment.  The subjects' mean pain score at the final time point (21 to 30 months after surgery) was decreased by 57% in usual pain intensity.  Jaw function showed an average improvement of 67%.  These subjects also showed a 13-mm mean increase in their maximum active opening ability at the 2-year postsurgical time point.  Slight to definite clicking noises were present presurgically in 11 of 18 patients, and similar joint noises were reported in 14 of 18 patients postsurgically.  The mean overall improvement was rated as 8.18 +/- 2.4, with 10 the highest possible rating.  One subject rated her improvement as 0, two subjects rated their improvement as 6 out of 10.  No significant morbidity was reported by the subjects as a result of their surgery.
Reduction of graft failure by a monoclonal antibody (anti-LFA-1 CD11a) after HLA nonidentical bone marrow transplantation in children with immunodeficiencies, osteopetrosis, and Fanconi's anemia: a European Group for Immunodeficiency/European Group for Bone Marrow Transplantation report.  Forty-six infants and children suffering from either inherited immunodeficiency disorders (Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, functional T-cell immunodeficiency with or without HLA class II expression deficiency), malignant osteopetrosis, or Fanconi's anemia received HLA-nonidentical bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from related donors.  Bone marrow was T-cell depleted to reduce the risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).  To prevent graft failure, a mouse monoclonal antibody specific for the CD11a-lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1) molecule was infused into the patients.  Eleven patients received five infusions of 0.1 mg/kg every other day from day -3 to +5.  Thirty-five patients received 0.2 mg/kg daily from day -3 to +6.  The overall sustained engraftment rate was 72% instead of 26.1% in a historical control group of 24 patients similarly treated except for the infusion of the anti-LFA-1 antibody.  No late rejection occurred.  The T-cell depletion method (E-rosetting or Campath IM plus complement) resulted in different rate of engraftment (83.3% v 57.9%, respectively, P = .05).  Engraftment rate was slightly but not significantly influenced by the degree of HLA incompatibility between donor and recipient.  Acute GVHD of grade II or more occurred in 35.5% of the patients and the rate of chronic GVHD was 12.9%.  The overall actuarial survival rate with a functional graft is 47.3% with a mean follow-up of 28.0 months for patients with immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis, while none of the four patients with Fanconi's anemia survived.  The development of full T-cell functions took on the average 6 months and of full B-cell functions 10 months.  Significant infectious problems developed in the majority of the patients during the posttransplant course.  Epstein-Barr virus-induced B-cell proliferative syndromes were observed in seven patients, six of whom had Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.  Correction of immunodeficiency was comparable in terms of kinetics and quality with that observed in patients with severe combined immunodeficiency undergoing HLA-nonidentical BMT.  Correction of osteopetrosis appears not to be different from what has been observed after HLA-identical BMT.  The in vivo use of an anti-CD11a-LFA-1 antibody as an additional immunosuppressive therapy in HLA-nonidentical BMT may thus promote engraftment and survival with correction of the primary disease in a significant number of patients with life-threatening immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis, but not with Fanconi's anemia.
Sagittal plane analysis in idiopathic scoliosis patients treated with Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation.  One hundred sixty patients with idiopathic scoliosis underwent preoperative and postoperative sagittal plane analysis of the thoracic spine, thoracolumbar junction, and lumbar spine.  The data suggest that mild to moderate improvements in thoracic hypokyphosis are possible.  When crossing the thoracolumbar junction, reversal of rod bend and reversal of hooks on the derotation rod appears to provide the most physiologic sagittal contour.  Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation to the mid and distal lumbar spine can preserve and, at times, enhance lumbar lordosis.
Focal myositis. A new cause for the pediatric neck mass.  Focal myositis is an inflammatory pseudotumor of skeletal muscle that may involve the head and neck.  It can closely mimic either a neoplastic or infectious process.  We present the case of a 7-year-old boy with a 2-week history of a painful, unilateral neck swelling, fever, and torticollis.  He failed to respond to antibiotic therapy and required an open neck exploration.  An incisional biopsy of the indurated, inflammatory tissue adherent to his sternocleidomastoid muscle showed focal myositis.  Focal myositis is an unusual, but important possibility in the differential diagnosis of any neck mass and especially one in a child.  Although its cause is unknown, it is a self-limited disease and neither excisional biopsy nor radical resection is justified.
Vertebral osteomyelitis.  Vertebral osteomyelitis can be caused by a variety of microorganisms.  The hematogenous pyogenic form is characteristically a disease of people over age 50, predominantly in the male population, and most frequently caused by S.  aureus.  In IVDAs, however, younger patients and a heavier predominance of males are seen, and P.  aeruginosa is one of the most commonly seen pathogens.  The disease is generally monomicrobial, unless it is secondary to a contiguous process such as a pressure sore, in which polymicrobial infection with participation of anaerobes is the general rule.  Lumbar, greater than thoracic, greater than cervical involvement is the rule in the general population, but cervical spine involvement is frequently seen more often than thoracic involvement in IVDAs.  Diabetic patients are over-represented among patients with vertebral osteomyelitis, and they also have a tendency for higher morbidity and mortality.  Simultaneous involvement of adjacent vertebral end plates and the intervening disk is the general rule.  The vertebrae are generally involved, and the posterior elements of the spine are involved infrequently.  Posterior element involvement is seen more commonly in actinomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, and neoplasms.  Newer diagnostic modalities, such as CT, MRI, and radionuclide scans, may detect the disease earlier than conventional radiographs.  Immunobilization by bed rest and appropriate antimicrobial therapy are generally sufficient in the therapy of pyogenic, as well as tuberculous, vertebral osteomyelitis.  In selected circumstances, such as in the presence of marked instability of the spine, the presence of new neurologic deficits, or with progression of previous neurologic deficits, surgical intervention may be necessary.  With prompt diagnosis and proper management, the prognosis should generally be good.
Free-tissue transfers for limb salvage utilizing in situ saphenous vein bypass conduit as the inflow.  Using vein grafts to bypass sclerotic and occluded arterial segments is a well-established technique in vascular surgery.  For infrapopliteal bypass, autogenous veins have better patency rates than synthetic grafts.  Although not resolved, in situ bypasses seem to be better than reversed bypasses, especially for "far away" segments.  Although the etiology is not understood, it is a well-known clinical finding that sclerosis affects arteries more than the veins and, as a whole, is more advanced in lower extremities compared with the trunk and upper extremities.  Our experience with eight patients in whom critical soft-tissue defects were covered with free-tissue transfers in severely compromised lower extremities utilizing the in situ saphenous vein bypass as the inflow is presented.  Simultaneous bypass and free-tissue transfers were performed in seven and delayed free-tissue transfer was done in one.  Follow-up ranged from 6 months to 3 years.  To date, two patients underwent amputations.  Five patients are able to maintain bipedal ambulation.  One patient is wheelchair-bound with intact lower extremities.  In well-selected patients, this procedure may offer an alternative treatment to amputation.  However, because of the complexity of these combined procedures, we strongly urge careful patient selection.
A preliminary report of arthroscopic findings following acute condylar trauma   Standard therapy in orthopedics dictates that joints with suspected hemarthrosis be considered for irrigation or exploration, especially when immobilization is part of the treatment plan.  In this preliminary report, 14 patients who had condylar/subcondylar fractures underwent superior joint space arthroscopy as part of the evaluation and treatment of their fractures.  In all but two patients, blood was found in the superior joint space.  Length of time from injury to time of examination correlated with the quantities of blood found.  The severity and direction of the blow seemed to influence the findings in the joints.  Synovial ecchymosis was a consistent finding.  The disc appeared to be grossly intact and within the glenoid fossa in all cases, even when the condyle was grossly displaced.  These findings raise questions about the role of direct disc injury as a source of postoperative temporomandibular joint (TMJ) symptoms, as well as about the practice of immobilization of fractures immediately after trauma.  Further studies will be necessary to compare the treatment results in patients who have had arthroscopy versus those who have not.
Diagnostic imaging of osteomyelitis.  There are many imaging procedures for diagnosing osteomyelitis, each with unique strengths and weaknesses.  Plain radiographs are inexpensive and can be very accurate but may provide a delayed diagnosis.  Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are both excellent at differentiating soft tissue infection from osteomyelitis.  Computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and bone scans are accurate diagnostic tools for use when the bone has not be violated by surgery, trauma, or other structural alterations.  When such changes are present, an Indium-111 leukocyte or Indium-111 polyclonal antibody study may be necessary for accurate diagnosis.
Acute eosinophilic pulmonary disease associated with the ingestion of L-tryptophan-containing products.  A series of four patients with pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusions, hypoxemia, peripheral eosinophilia, and symptoms of dyspnea, fatigue, and weakness is reported.  Lung tissue obtained in three patients revealed interstitial pneumonitis, small-to-medium-vessel mixed-cell vasculitis, and alveolar exudate of histiocytes and eosinophils.  All patients reported ingestion of L-tryptophan-containing products at a time when an association between L-tryptophan and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome was established.  This clinical pattern of pulmonary involvement may be part of the continuum of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  The pathophysiology of this syndrome and the relationship with the ingestion of L-tryptophan-containing products have not yet been identified.
Multiple orbital tumors were cavernous hemangiomas.  Two distinct masses in the left orbit were incidentally found in a 48-year-old woman during a computed tomographic scan done to evaluate neurologic complaints.  Initial diagnostic considerations focused on a lymphoproliferative disorder or other systemic disease.  Orbitotomy revealed two discrete tumors, both cavernous hemangiomas.  Although uncommon, cavernous hemangioma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the patient with multiple orbital lesions.
Congenital anomalies of the cervical spine.  Congenital anomalies of the cervical spine are uncommon.  The majority of afflicted individuals are asymptomatic or have only mild restriction of neck motion.  If symptoms develop, they are usually due to cervical instability or degenerative osteoarthrosis.  Recent information indicates that patients with upper cervical anomalies such as atlantooccipital fusion, anomalies of the odontoid, or the transverse atlantal ligament have a great propensity to develop early instability and neurologic problems secondary to minor traumatic events.  If symptoms occurs in the lower cervical spine, it is usually in adult life and due to degenerative arthritis in the hypermobile articulations adjacent to the area of synostosis.  The relatively good prognosis of cervical lesions is overshadowed by the "hidden" or unrecognized associated anomalies.  There is a high incidence of significant scoliosis, Sprengel's deformity, renal anomalies, deafness, and neurologic malformations.  Early recognition and treatment of these problems may be of substantial benefit, sparing the patient further deformity or serious illness.
Cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem component. A report of seven cases.  Seven patients had a cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem femoral component.  Four patients died in the operating room, and three patients were successfully resuscitated.  When the three survivors were eventually discharged from the hospital, they had no known permanent cardiac, pulmonary, or neurological sequelae.  Factors that were common to all of the patients were advanced age, osteoporotic bone, a previously undisturbed intramedullary canal, and use of a long-stem femoral component and several batches of methylmethacrylate.  Hip arthroplasty with a long-stem femoral component is associated with substantial risk in these patients.  Excessive pressurization of cement should be avoided, and invasive hemodynamic monitoring should be used when the described conditions are present.
Unstable lumbar spine without hypermobility in postlaminectomy cases. Mechanism of symptoms and effect of spinal fusion with and without spinal instrumentation.  The morbid conditions of unstable lumbar spine that are not associated with hypermobility in postlaminectomy cases were studied.  The dura and the nerve roots with adhesion could be affected by minimal movement of the spine, which seemed to be the mechanism of symptoms of instability without hypermobility.  The effects of spinal instrumentation on this particular instability were studied.  The spinal instrumentation provides instantaneous rigid fixation, and maintains it until fusion is obtained, which might prevent adhesion, new bone formation, and re-stenosis.  Spinal instrumentation seemed to be the effective treatment for this particular instability.
Risk factors for disability among U.S. adults with arthritis.  This article studies risk factors for physical and social disability among U.S.  adults ages 55+ who have arthritis, compared to non-arthritis persons of those ages.  The dependent variables refer to difficulties in walking, physical functioning (motions and strength), personal care, and household care.  The data set is the Supplement on Aging (SOA) (n = 16,148) that accompanied the 1984 National Health Interview Survey.  The SOA data are cross-sectional; relationships of risk factors to disability suggest causation but do not directly demonstrate it.  Logistic regressions show that risk factors are similar for arthritis and non-arthritis people, with one important exception.  (1) The similarities are: For both groups, odds of disability rise with age, diminish with education, and are higher for non-whites and non-married persons.  Disability rises with number of chronic diseases and impairments, and it is elevated for underweight persons (Body Mass Index (BMI) less than 20; further analysis indicates this reflects incomplete control of their severe illness status).  Long duration of arthritis and recent medical care for it are associated with disability.  (2) The exception is: Severe overweight (BMI greater than or equal to 30) is a disability risk factor for arthritis people, but not for non-arthritis people.  Previous research has shown that obesity/overweight is a risk factor for etiology of osteoarthritis; our analysis now shows its continued importance for disability when the disease is present.
Contracturing granulomatous myositis: a separate entity.  Granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis, but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation.  Patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles.  There are, however, a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs.  Two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs, but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease, is presented.  It is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness.  The association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related.
Bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome.  Fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist.  In this study, we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease (DJD) and 46 normal controls.  Ninety (73%) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 (37%) DJD patients and none of the normal controls (P less than 0.001).  Ninety-nine patients (81%) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern, and 77 (63%) had alternating diarrhea and constipation.  In contrast, only 24 (44%) of DJD patients and six (13%) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 (22%) of the DJD patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea (P less than 0.01).  Other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas (59%), nausea (21%), diarrhea (9%), and constipation (12%).  Seventy-nine (64%) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47% of the time.  Laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group (19%) and absent in the other two groups.  Fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients, compared to 28% of DJD patients, felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease (P less than 0.05).  In conclusion, patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed.  If the diagnosis of IBS is confirmed, appropriate treatment may improve patients' symptoms, although this approach requires further study.
Correction of coxa vara in childhood. The use of Pauwels' Y-shaped osteotomy.  The long-term results following the correction of coxa vara by Pauwels' Y-shaped intertrochanteric osteotomy have been evaluated in 14 children.  Ten of the children had unilateral hip disease and were otherwise normal while four had bilateral hip disease due to generalised skeletal dysplasias.  In each case, the growth plate was vertical, the femoral head was displaced inferiorly and there were abnormalities in the metaphysis of the femoral neck.  The results indicate that this osteotomy provides lasting correction of the deformity, regardless of the cause, as long as the inclination of the growth plate is corrected to 40 degrees or less and adequate support is provided for the metaphyseal defect and the displaced femoral head.
Magnetic resonance imaging of sacroiliac joint inflammation.  A consecutive series of 27 patients with symptoms compatible with sacroiliitis underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the sacroiliac joints.  The diagnostic sensitivity of MRI was similar to that of computed tomography or conventional radiography.  However, MRI seems to have the potential of providing unique information about the disease process in sacroiliitis by demonstrating abnormalities in subchondral bone and periarticular bone marrow.  The results of this study suggest that early inflammatory changes in sacroiliitis occur in the subchondral structures of the sacroiliac joints.
Skeletal involvement in children who have chronic granulomatous disease.  Chronic granulomatous disease is a rare disorder of the oxidative metabolism of the white blood cells that results in immunodeficiency.  In a retrospective review of the records of forty-two patients who had chronic granulomatous disease, we identified thirteen patients who had a total of twenty skeletal infections.  Two types of infection were noted: Type 1, which resulted from a direct spread of the infection from an adjacent focus, usually of fungus or mycobacteria, and Type 2, which resulted from hematogenous spread, usually of Nocardia or more common bacteria.  The thoracic vertebrae, ribs, and metatarsals were the most commonly involved bones.  All four patients in whom the vertebrae were involved had a Type-1 fungal infection.  Paresis developed in three of these patients, and two of them died.  Antibiotics alone effectively eradicated the infection in only one patient.  Wide operative debridement combined with administration of antibiotics was the most successful treatment.  Comprehensive preoperative imaging and several cultures are necessary to locate the infection in the bone and to identify the organism.
Ten-year results of operations for rheumatoid cervical spine disorders.  The outcome of operations performed on 38 patients for rheumatoid disorders of the cervical spine were analysed 10 or more years later.  The mean age of the patients at the time of operation was 56 years (35 to 77); 32 had seropositive disease.  The mean duration of the disease was 17 years (four to 36).  Twenty-seven patients had painful anterior atlanto-axial subluxation (AAS), nine had subaxial subluxation alone and two had severe cranial subluxation of the odontoid, one also with subaxial subluxation.  One patient died from postoperative staphylococcal septicaemia and another 18 died during the follow-up period.  Patients with coincident cardiac or other diseases, and those with cranial subluxation of the odontoid of more than 3 mm had an increased mortality.  Neither the patients' age nor the magnitude of AAS correlated with mortality.  Of the 37 patients with occipitocervical pain, 30 were relieved and all the six patients with tetraparesis were improved.  Of the 24 Gallie fusions only 12 were solidly united; patients with long-term cortisone treatment were more likely to develop pseudarthrosis.  There was no correlation between clinical outcome and radiological result.  Four patients had further operations to treat subluxation which developed below the fused segments.
Characteristics of respondents and nonrespondents in a prospective study of osteoporosis.  During 1981-1982, a cohort of elderly Japanese Americans living in Hawaii was recruited for an epidemiologic study of osteoporosis.  The male subjects were simultaneously being examined for an epidemiologic study of heart disease.  Baseline data collected from both the men and women at a previous heart disease examination were used to compare responders vs nonresponders.  The target population for the osteoporosis study consisted of 1685 men and 1594 women.  Of these, 1379 men (81.8%) and 1105 women (72.0%) participated in the initial osteoporosis examination.  For each sex, nonrespondents were older and had higher systolic blood pressure levels than did the respondents.  Male nonresponders had a higher stroke prevalence and more frequent recent use of vasodilator medicine.  Female nonresponders had a less frequent history of having ever taken female hormones than did the responders.  The responders and nonresponders were reasonably similar in other respects, as indicated by the comparison of more than 40 other variables.  This suggests that nonresponse bias is probably not a major influence in exposure-disease associations in this osteoporosis cohort.  We believe this is the first published report dealing with nonresponse characteristics in a cohort study of osteoporosis.
Magnetic resonance imaging of primary skeletal muscle diseases: patterns of distribution and severity of involvement.  Magnetic resonance imaging of the lower extremities was performed with a low field system in 51 patients representing three different categories of biopsy-proven primary skeletal muscle disease; muscular dystrophies, congenital myopathies and polymyositis.  The intermuscular distribution of abnormal signal intensity and the grade of involvement of individual muscles were assessed.  Large differences in the degree of pathological signal intensity between individual muscles were found in all categories.  In the muscular dystrophy and polymyositis patients, the overall involvement was significantly more severe than in patients with congenital myopathy.  Definite patterns of selective involvement were seen.  Statistical evidence of selective muscle sparing was found; the gracilis muscle was significantly less affected than the other muscles in all three disease groups.  Other muscles with significant sparing include the rectus femoris and sartorius muscles of the thigh and the tibialis posterior muscle of the leg.  Common anatomical and functional characteristics of muscles may be related to the distribution of muscular disease.
Infectious arthritis.  Any patient who presents with an acute monarticular arthritis, especially a new asymmetric effusion with underlying joint disease, should be suspected of having a bacterial process.  Because synovial fluid findings (leukocyte counts and glucose) may not be predictive of infection, bacteriologic analysis by smear and culture is necessary in the evaluation of any new synovial effusion.  A chronic monarticular process is highly likely to be infectious also, but mycobacterial or fungal etiologies frequently require appropriate culture of synovial tissue in addition to processing fluid.  Acute polyarticular syndromes are seen as manifestations of disseminated gonococcal infections (DGI) and certain viral infections in adults.  Diagnostic clues include historic and physical findings (exposure history and type of rash).  The major pathogen in adults remains Staphylococcus aureus, so initial therapy is directed at this organism unless urinary tract infection is present also.  Proper recommended therapy for DGI is ceftriaxone because penicillin-resistant strains are present in many urban centers.  Early recognition and treatment of bacterial arthritis may prevent poor outcome, particularly in elderly patients or those with underlying joint diseases.  For chronic mycobacterial or fungal infections, surgery may need to be combined with medical management.
Long-term results of posterior release surgery for severe flexion contracture of the knee in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.  Twelve knees in nine rheumatoid patients with severe flexion contractures were evaluated clinically and roentgenographically for an average of 17.2 years (range, six to 25 years) after posterior release surgery.  Preoperatively, the average extension in the 12 knees was 42.5 degrees, and postoperatively it was 10.8 degrees.  Even though patients were able to walk postoperatively, the majority had knee pain when they extended their knees soon after surgery.  Seven knees required further surgery after correction of the flexion deformity.  The average time before reconstructive surgery after posterior release was 11.1 months.  In the treatment of severe flexion deformities of the knee in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, posterior release surgery was effective only in correcting the deformity.  Posterior subluxation of the tibia, knee pain, and instability occurred soon after surgery.  Therefore, patients may require additional reconstructive surgery soon after the posterior release.
Lumbar isthmic spondylolisthesis in children and adolescents. Radiologic evaluation and results of operative treatment.  A clinical and radiologic follow-up study of a group of 75 children and adolescents, comprised of both boys and girls, who underwent spondylodesis for spondylolisthesis between the years 1979 and 1984 is reported.  Sagittal rotation, lumbosacral joint angle, lumbar lordosis, wedging of olisthetic vertebrae, and the rounding of the upper sacrum showed considerable statistical correlation to the amount of slipping and accordingly should be noted when estimating the risk of progression of the spondylolisthesis.  When the spondylolisthesis was accompanied by scoliosis, it was noted that seriousness of the former was closely correlated to that of the latter.  Most patients profited by the operation, and solid fusion was achieved in almost all cases.  The posterolateral spondylolysis performed using graft from the iliac crest, the interbody fusion technique, or their combination turned out to be the most reliable surgical methods.  The combined technique was especially required in cases with a high degree of slipping.
HIV associated arthropathy: HIV antigen demonstration in the synovial membrane.  Light and electron microscopic studies were performed on the synovial membranes of 5 patients with HIV associated arthropathy.  An immunoperoxidase technique with the use of monoclonal antibodies against CD4, CD8, B and DR lymphocytes, and HIV p24 antigen was also used.  Mild to moderate nonspecific proliferative changes and increased vascularity of the subsynovial space were seen.  Electron dense deposits and viral-like particles were not observed.  Immunohistochemical staining revealed HIV p24 positive staining in cells of the synovial lining layer and in the mononuclear cells of the subsynovial space.  CD4, CD8, with predominance of CD8, and B and DR cells were also present.  The presence of HIV p24 antigen may be indicative of a role, yet to be defined, in the pathogenesis of HIV associated rheumatic disorders.
In vivo muscle magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the clinical investigation of mitochondrial disease.  We have investigated the sensitivity and specificity of a rapid phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) protocol for detecting metabolic abnormalities in vivo in skeletal muscle of patients with mitochondrial disease.  We examined 17 patients with mitochondrial myopathies.  Sixteen had only mild or minimal myopathic signs and symptoms.  Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectra from the resting gastrocnemius muscles showed an abnormal intracellular energy state (marked by an increased intracellular inorganic phosphate concentration) in 14/17.  In 3/17, this was associated with a decreased phosphocreatine concentration.  We also studied 20 patients with other diseases of muscle (inflammatory myopathies, metabolic myopathies, muscular dystrophies, and myasthenia gravis) that can present with similar clinical features.  Spectra showed increased intracellular inorganic phosphate concentrations in 6/20.  All of these muscle diseases were associated with evidence of muscle fiber necrosis.  Abnormalities in the muscle energy state in these cases may be due to secondary mitochondrial dysfunction.  Except for cases of polymyositis and dermatomyositis, these 6 other myopathies could be readily distinguished from the mitochondrial myopathies on the basis of the clinical examination and blood tests.  We conclude that phosphorus MRS of resting muscle is practical in a clinical setting and has a useful sensitivity and specificity for mitochondrial myopathies when used in conjunction with standard noninvasive tests.
Skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele and osteomyelitis.  A case of skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele is presented.  While the similarity in clinical signs between sinus mucocele and malignancy has recently been emphasized in the literature, no previous case of skull base malignancy following frontoethmoid mucocele has been reported.  The literature is reviewed and the association between inflammatory conditions and sinus malignancy is outlined.
Clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging for cervical myelopathy.  The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings in 115 cases of cervical myelopathy, 121 cases of cervical radiculopathy, and 64 cases of neck pain with no neurologic deficit were prospectively studied to investigate the clinical value of MRI for cervical myelopathy.  The MRI findings in the T1-weighted sagittal projection were classified into four groups according to the degree of the compressed deformities of the cervical cord.  The degree of compression of the cervical cord on MRI findings showed a significant correlation with the severity of myelopathy, the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal column, and the degree of compression of the dural tube in the myelograms (P less than 0.01).  Fifty-one patients of cervical myelopathy had undergone both preoperative and postoperative MRI.  Of these, the spinal canal of 47 patients that was well decompressed was recognized according to plain computed tomography (CT).  However, 24 (51%) of these 47 patients showed on MRI a deformity in the spinal cord amounting to cord atrophy.  The correlation between the clinical function of the spinal cord and the recovery of the cord deformity on MRI at the operative levels was accurately investigated in 34 patients who had no cord deformities in the adjacent intervertebral levels.  Twenty patients with cord atrophy had slightly poor clinical results, although no significant difference was found between these 20 and 14 patients with recovery in the cord deformities.  From these results, it was evident that T1-weighted MRI is useful in the accurate diagnosis of compression myelopathy, in accurately deciding the level of the disease focus, and in the accurate assessment of the surgical results.
Polymyositis, pulmonary fibrosis and autoantibodies to aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase enzymes.  The clinical and laboratory features of 29 patients who had one of three anti-aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase autoantibodies, anti-Jo1 (histidyl-tRNA synthetase), anti-PL12 (alanyl-tRNA synthetase) or anti-PL7 (threonyl-tRNA synthetase) were analysed and compared with the findings of other published reports.  These autoantibodies were found to be associated with a syndrome delineated by inflammatory myositis (24 patients) and pulmonary fibrosis (23 of 29), but also including inflammatory arthritis (26/29), keratoconjunctivitis sicca (17/29), sclerodactyly (21/29), Raynaud's phenomenon (27/29), hepatitis (8/29) and subcutaneous calcinosis (7/29).  The most important clinical determinant of outcome in this group of patients was the severity of the interstitial pulmonary disease.  No patient fulfilled the classification criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus, although 10 had autoantibodies to extractable nuclear antigens including Ro, La, RNP, and Sm, and two patients had anti-dsDNA antibodies.  Although it seems unlikely that anti-aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase antibodies are directly responsible for causing disease, they may provide an important clue to the aetiology of this unusual syndrome.
Presentation of breast carcinoma as Volkmann's contracture due to skeletal muscle metastases.  Metastases to the skeletal muscles are extremely rare.  They usually occur during the course of a pulmonary or digestive carcinoma.  We describe a case of breast carcinoma presenting with forearm muscle metastases and Volkmann's type contracture.
Remitting seronegative symmetrical synovitis with pitting oedema in young adults: a subset of rheumatoid arthritis or a distinct syndrome?  Three young adult patients with seronegative symmetrical polysynovitis affecting the peripheral joints with pitting oedema of both dorsum of hands and feet are described.  All of these patients had a benign course and resolved completely within 10-15 months of the onset.  None developed any deformities or erosions and/or relapse of arthritis after prolonged follow-up.
Spinal epidural abscess: an unusual complication of a duodenal ulcer.  A 50-year-old man had several months of progressively worse low-back pain associated with constitutional symptoms and a history of retroperitoneal tumor and bleeding duodenal ulcer.  Initial evaluation suggested a lumbar spine tumor, but myelography confirmed the presence of an epidural abscess.  Further evaluation revealed a duodeno-spinal fistula at the site of the previous duodenal ulcer, which proved to be the cause of the abscess.
The heterogeneity of anticentromere antibodies in immunoblotting analysis.  We tested anticentromere antibody positive sera from 37 patients by immunoblotting techniques.  Three antigenic polypeptides were recognized when immunoblotted against protein extracts from HeLa cell nuclei or from chromosomal segments enriched with centromere region.  These were a 17 kDa (CENP-A recognized by 34 sera), an 80 kDa (CENP-B recognized by 33 sera), and a 140 kDa polypeptide (CENP-C recognized by 26 sera).  There was no disease specific pattern of antigenic polypeptides, although Raynaud's phenomenon was frequent in patients with anti-CENP-B reactivities (p less than 0.01).  The heterogeneity of the anticentromere antibody response in Japanese patients shows anticentromere antibody may not be a disease specific autoantibody and diagnostic marker.
Basilar impression in osteogenesis imperfecta tarda. Case report.  A case is presented of basilar impression secondary to osteogenesis imperfecta tarda, associated with hemifacial spasm and brain-stem compression syndrome.  The symptoms improved with posterior fossa decompression and posterior fusion.
Long-term follow-up of the use of nonporous hydroxyapatite for augmentation of the alveolar ridge.  Particulate hydroxyapatite (HA) was used in the augmentation of 18 mandibular and four maxillary ridges in 21 patients whose cases were followed postoperatively for 5 to 7 years.  Patients were evaluated clinically, radiographically, and through questionnaires.  Prosthodontic assessment of retention and stability of dentures showed improvement 5 years postoperatively.  Patients receiving HA rated their dentures favorably using parameters of the Cornell Medical Index.  The results of this study show that particulate HA alone can be used as a satisfactory material for augmentation of the alveolar ridge.
Treatment of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand ('trigger finger') with corticosteroids. A prospective study of the response to local injection.  We developed a protocol to maximize medical therapy for "trigger finger." Fifty-eight patients with 77 episodes of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand that was resistant to rest, therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and/or splinting were treated with single or multiple injections of depo-methylprednisolone acetate or triamcinolone acetonide.  Patients were prospectively followed up for an average of 4.6 years.  Results showed that symptoms and signs resolved in 61% after a single injection.  Recurrent episodes, after prolonged pain-free intervals, occurred in 27% and were effectively re-treated with injection.  In 12% of cases, either injection failed or early recurrence required surgical release.  Local adverse reactions to injection, including pain at the injection site, stiffness, ecchymosis, or atrophy of subcutaneous fat, were self-limited.  No episodes of postinjection infection or tendon rupture occurred.  The medical management of flexor tenosynovitis with local corticosteroid injection(s) is effective in nearly 90% of cases and is free from serious adverse reactions.
Computed tomographic assessment of old calcaneal fractures.  Prolonged pain and disability are common complications of calcaneal fractures.  A prospective study was conducted on the value of computed tomography (CT) in 63 patients with 73 calcaneal fractures sustained more than 6 months before.  The fractures were classified from the initial plain radiographs, and the patients' current clinical condition assessed in terms of a "disability score".  The mean disability scores (MDS) associated with the different types of fracture were correlated with the CT findings.  The highest MDS was found in the intra-articular fracture group which comprised 71% of the series.  In this group the MDS was increased in the presence of post-traumatic osteoarthrosis of the subtalar joint (61% of cases), involvement of the calcaneocuboid joint (39% of cases) and subluxation/dislocation of the peroneal tendons (47% of cases).  Structural abnormalities of the peroneal tendons were associated with a higher MDS including chronic tenosynovitis (eight cases), chronic partial tendon rupture (eight cases), complete peroneus brevis tendon rupture (two cases) and scarring indicating stenosing tenosynovitis (14 cases).  A similar spectrum of appearances affecting the medial tendons of the hindfoot was identified in eight cases.  Direct CT measurements of the degree of comminution did not correlate well with the patients' MDS.  In the patient with persistent symptoms, CT is of value in the later assessment of long-term complications by revealing abnormalities of the subtalar joints and adjacent tendons.
Reconstruction of the severely atrophic edentulous mandible by means of autogenous bone grafts and simultaneous placement of osseointegrated implants.  A method of reconstructing the severely atrophic mandible that simultaneously provides additional strength and the ability to house osseointegrated implants is presented.  The performance of the procedure from an external approach minimizes the possibility of oral contamination and, therefore, infection.  The procedure has been performed on 10 patients, with a longest follow-up of 3 years.  A 93% success rate has been achieved, and bone resorption at the implant sites has thus far been negligible.  Prosthetic rehabilitation has been done in 9 of the 10 cases; 3 have been tissue-supported prostheses, and 6 have been completely implant-supported prostheses.
A histologic evaluation of the accuracy of TMJ diagnostic arthroscopy.  Sixty-seven temporomandibular joints with internal derangement were examined with arthroscopy, and synovial biopsies were taken for histologic evaluation.  Histologically, in 10 cases, the synovium appeared to be normal in appearance, 24 cases had moderate to severe synovitis, 11 cases showed hyperplastic synovitis, 13 cases showed synovial fibrosis, and foreign body granuloma was found in 9 cases.  Correlation between arthroscopic observation and histologic findings disclosed an 89.1% specificity and 100% sensitivity.
Tissue response to composite ceramic hydroxyapatite/demineralized bone implants.  This study evaluated the tissue reactions to two materials: ceramic hydroxyapatite (CHA), and a composite material of demineralized bone powder (DBP) and CHA (ratio of 4:1) in a collagen vehicle.  The materials were tested in a subcutaneous pocket, a mandibular onlay, and in a calvarial onlay model.  Specimens were evaluated histologically at 7, 10, 14, and 21 days postimplantation.  Ceramic hydroxyapatite, implanted subcutaneously, elicited a fibrous response with minimal inflammation, but did not induce bone formation.  In specimens of subcutaneously implanted composite material, induced bone was evident in association with the DBP.  In CHA onlay specimens, there was a small amount of reactive bone extending from the host bone into the implant.  In composite onlays, bone filled the entire body of the implant.  The results of this study indicate that CHA particles were not osteoinductive in heterotopic sites and that osteoconductive ingrowth was minimal in onlays.  Bone was induced by DBP even when mixed with CHA particles and implanted in subcutaneous and intraosseous sites.  It was concluded that composite implants may provide a means of combining the osteoinductive properties of DBP with the bulk and structural support of osteoconductive CHA particles.
Restoration of the anterior neck surface in the burned patient by free groin flap.  In treating extensive burn contractures of the anterior neck, we obtained good results using free flaps.  Ninety-nine patients with neck contractures were treated with free flaps.  The ages of the patients range from 2 to 64 years.  We used 84 free groin flaps, 10 free latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flaps, 2 free deltopectoral flaps, 2 free scapular flaps, and 1 free anterolateral thigh flap.  In all patients, contractures were sufficiently released and no recurrences followed after a mean follow-up of 8.7 years.  After defatting procedures, natural profiles and good appearances were restored, especially in patients in whom groin flaps were used.
Motor-evoked potentials in patients with cervical spine disorders.  Measurements of motor-evoked potentials by means of fractionated magnetic stimulation of motor pathways to the upper limbs was performed as part of the clinical assessment in 268 patients with cervical spine disorders.  Seventy-two percent of the 127 patients with degenerative changes of the cervical spine, 67% of the 55 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and 57% of the 51 patients with trauma of the cervical spine showed a pathologic delay of central motor latency (CML).  The data suggest that this method has a high sensitivity and therefore is recommended in the diagnosis of cervical spine disorders in patients with suspected compression of neural structures.
Extracranial and mandibular augmentation with hydroxyapatite-collagen in induced diabetic and nondiabetic rats [published erratum appears in J Oral Maxillofac Surg 1991 Jun;49(6):669]  This study evaluated three hydroxyapatite (HA) preparations placed subperiosteally in rats given streptozotocin (70 mg/kg) to induce diabetes (ID) (n = 24) and in nondiabetic (ND) rats (n = 24) used as controls.  Implants of 1) nonporous HA granules (HAG), 2) HA granules hand-mixed with bovine collagen (HACM), and 3) HA granules and purified fibrillar collagen in a preprocessed block (PFC-HA) were randomly placed in subperiosteal pockets created on the cranium and adjacent to the left/right mandibles of each rat.  Six rats from each group were killed at 3, 6, 12, and 24 weeks postimplantation.  Animals killed after 3 weeks showed sporadic bone proliferation and bone resorption, whereas those killed after 6, 12, and 24 weeks showed formation of new bone at the implant/bone interface.  Contact of the implant with bone was a requirement for osteogenesis, but bone formed only into the basilar layers of the implants.  The ID group showed the greatest inflammatory response as well as the greatest degree of osteogenesis at all intervals of time.  The addition of collagen to HA appeared to reduce the inflammatory response.  Specimens implanted with HACM showed the least inflammation of the three implanted materials in both ID and ND groups.
Magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex in cervical spondylosis.  We report a new technique of transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex to measure conduction within central motor pathways of 67 patients with cervical spondylosis or disk herniation.  There were upper motor neuron signs in 34 patients (51%) and x-ray evidence of cervical cord compression in 44 (66%).  Muscle action potentials (MAPs) to cortical stimulation were abnormal in 84% of patients with, and 22% of those without, radiologic signs of cervical cord compression.  Median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials were altered in only 25% of patients.  The frequency of MAP alterations correlated with upper motor neuron signs.  In 5 (11%) of the 44 patients with x-ray evidence of cervical cord compression, subclinical cord compression was disclosed by cortical stimulation.  In 10 patients restudied 3 months after surgical decompression, normalization of central motor conduction time did not occur, indicating permanent damage to the cervical cord.
Induction of arthritis in rats by aqueous suspensions of mycobacteria without the use of oil.  We report for the first time the induction of arthritis by an aqueous, rather than an oil, suspension of killed tubercle bacilli.  This was accomplished in the highly susceptible dark Agouti strain of rats, by intraperitoneal injection during the healing phase of chemically induced peritonitis.  The same procedure (injection after the induction of peritonitis) augmented the incidence of arthritis produced by bovine type II collagen and Freund's complete adjuvant.  Enhanced delivery of antigen from the peritoneal cavity to regional lymph nodes in the postinflammatory state was responsible for this increase in the induction of arthritis.
Pneumococcal osteomyelitis and arthritis in children. A hospital series and literature review.  Twenty-nine children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis, 11 of whom had osteomyelitis, were treated at Cook County Hospital, Chicago, Ill, in the past 20 years.  They were mostly normal children with a single focus of infection.  They represented more than 5% of the hospitalized children with a systemic pneumococcal infection.  Most of the pneumococcal isolates were serotyped; serotype 19, in particular, seemed to be unusually common in these children.  Twenty-three of the 29 children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis had been hospitalized in the past 15 years.  These 23 children were compared with 161 hospitalized children who had bone and joint infections with other isolated bacteria.  The children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were indistinguishable from most of the other children, except by age.  All but three of the children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were between the ages of 3 and 24 months.  In this age group, Pneumococcus was the common isolate from children with osteomyelitis, and second only to Haemophilus influenzae from children with bacterial arthritis.  Pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis has never been rare; the medical literature describes at least 245 other children, most of whom were younger than 2 years.
Chondrons from articular cartilage. III. Morphologic changes in the cellular microenvironment of chondrons isolated from osteoarthritic cartilage.  Chondrons were isolated from human and canine osteoarthritic cartilage using low-speed homogenization techniques.  Changes in chondron morphology were evaluated using differential interference-contrast microscopy, phase-contrast microscopy, and histochemical and ultrastructural methods.  Chondrocyte viability was assessed using fluorescein diacetate staining, and chondron metabolism was investigated using autoradiography.  The results suggest that initial changes in the collagen and proteoglycan distribution within the chondron are followed by chondrocyte proliferation to form clusters.  These techniques offer the potential to study cell matrix interactions in degenerative osteoarthritis.
Bone resorption, stability, and soft-tissue changes following large chin advancements.  Large advancement genioplasties were performed in 10 patients (mean advancement, 11.7 mm) by horizontal osteotomy of the inferior border of the mandible, with preservation of a musculoperiosteal pedicle to the advanced genial segment.  Preoperative, immediate postoperative, and long-term follow-up lateral cephalometric radiographs were retrospectively analyzed to evaluate the osseous and soft-tissue changes of the chin.  After a mean follow-up period of 15 months, 76% of the initial advancement was preserved, representing 24% osseous resorption.  The enveloping soft tissues of the chin followed the bony movement in a ratio of 1:0.88.  Horizontal osteotomy of the inferior border of the mandible was a relatively stable procedure when used for large chin advancements.  The broadcast possible musculoperiosteal pedicle should remain attached to the advanced genial segment to minimize osseous resorption and to achieve more predictable soft-tissue changes.
Intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia.  We evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen, cow milk beta-lactoglobulin (BLG) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms.  Sixteen patients (77% of those with arthralgia) responded to diet (RD) with marked reduction of symptoms; the others did not respond (NR).  Ten (all but one RD with arthralgia) had increased permeability to BLG after oral administration of cow milk.  Four with high titers of IgG to BLG showed the highest absorption of BLG and the groups with arthralgia showed higher BLG levels than those without arthralgia.  In all cases, specific IgE to cow milk was absent.  These data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria, and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet, are related to excess intestinal permeability.  The measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction.
Muscle conditioning in late poliomyelitis.  To study the adaptability of postpolio muscles, 12 subjects (mean age 54 years) participated in a high-intensity resistance exercise program.  Seventy-five percent met the criteria for postpolio syndrome.  Isometric and isokinetic strength and muscle endurance were measured.  Polio-affected muscles were identified in muscle biopsies.  The biopsies were also used for measurements of enzymatic activities and for histochemical and histopathologic analyses.  Pretraining strength values were less than half those of healthy controls, mean fiber areas were twice those of healthy controls, and oxidative enzyme activity was low.  After training, a significant increase in isometric (mean 29%) and isokinetic (mean 24%) strength was observed and maintained for some time.  This demonstrates remaining adaptability in muscles already compensated from long-standing polio.
Muscle performance, voluntary activation, twitch properties and perceived effort in normal subjects and patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome.  The decrease in maximal force-generating capacity, the degree of central activation of the muscle, and the subjective perception of effort were measured during prolonged submaximal isometric exercise in 12 male patients suffering from the 'chronic fatigue syndrome' and 13 naive, healthy male subjects.  Maximal voluntary isometric torque generated by the elbow flexors was measured before, and at 5 min intervals during an endurance sequence of 45 min of repetitive isometric contractions (6 s duration, 4 s rest interval) producing 30% of the initial maximal voluntary torque.  Electrical stimuli were also delivered to the elbow flexors to measure the contractile force in the intervals between voluntary contractions.  The degree of central motor activation during maximal voluntary contractions was assessed using a sensitive method of twitch interpolation.  In addition, the perceived effort required to achieve the target submaximal contractions was recorded using a standardized self-report scale.  A high degree of central activation was achieved in maximal contractions during the endurance sequence both in the patients (mean of maximal force 93.6%; SD 7.8%), and in the control subjects (mean 90.9%; SD 9.5%).  The relative torque produced by either voluntary or electrically stimulated contractions was not significantly different between patients and control subjects throughout the test.  There was no significant difference in the perceived exertion between the patients and control subjects.  These findings support the concept that neither poor motivation, nor muscle contractile failure is important in the pathogenesis of 'fatigue' in patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome.
Clinical evaluation of the ITI (F-type) hollow cylinder implant.  In 1976 the hollow cylinder implant was introduced.  A number of articles have been published about the ITI implant system.  In this article, short-term results of 102 ITI F-type implants in 40 patients are reported.  The results showed this one-stage implant to be at least comparable to other well-known implant systems.
Recurrent rhabdomyolysis in association with cocaine use.  As the popularity of cocaine increases in our society, so does the frequency and variety of medical complications associated with its use.  A growing number of cases have implicated cocaine use in the development of rhabdomyolysis and its complication, acute renal failure.  We have reported the first case of recurrent rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure directly associated with cocaine use.  Although adulterants might cause muscle damage, we believe cocaine should be added to the list of drugs that are capable of producing rhabdomyolysis.
A prospective, randomized study of three surgical techniques for treatment of acute ruptures of the anterior cruciate ligament.  Treatment of ACL tears is controversial.  Recent reports on nonoperative treatment have shown poor results.  Results after primary repair have deteriorated with time, leading to augmentation procedures that seem to have improved the results.  However, there have been few prospective, randomized studies in this field.  Our goal was to compare primary repair with a bone-patellar tendon-bone augmentation method and with a new method using the Kennedy Ligament Augmentation Device.  One hundred fifty patients aged 16 to 50, all of whom had acute ACL tears, were randomized with the closed envelope method to one of three groups treated with open surgical methods.  Fifty patients were treated with primary repair, 50 patients with patellar tendon augmentation, and 50 patients were augmented with the Kennedy Ligament Augmentation Device.  All patients were operated on within 10 days of injury.  The rehabilitation protocol was identical, consisting of a long leg cast for 2 weeks, followed by a brace with no weight-bearing and limited motion for 6 weeks.  The patients were followed prospectively by one surgeon (LE) using the Lysholm functional score, Tegner activity level score, clinical evaluation and KT-1000 arthrometer at 6 months, 1, and 2 years.  Three patients were lost to followup.  There was no age or activity level difference between the groups.  Sport activities led to 85% of the injuries, with skiing, soccer, and European handball representing 80% of injuries.  All three groups reduced their activity level the 1st year.  The repair group remained at the same level after 2 years.
Joint proprioception in normal, osteoarthritic and replaced knees.  We measured joint position sense in the knee by a new method which tests the proprioceptive contribution of the joint capsule and ligaments.  The leg was supported on a splint, and held in several positions of flexion.  The subjects' perception of the position was recorded on a visual analogue model and compared with the actual angle of flexion.  Eighty-one normal and 45 osteoarthritic knees were examined, as were 10 knees with semi-constrained and 11 with hinged joint replacements.  All were assessed with and without an elastic bandage around the knee.  There was a steady decline in joint position sense with age in subjects with normal knees.  Those with osteoarthritic knees had impaired joint position sense at all ages (p less than 0.001).  Knee replacement improved the joint position sense slightly (p less than 0.02); semi-constrained replacement had a greater effect than hinged replacement.  The effect of an elastic bandage in subjects with poor position sense was dramatic, improving accuracy by 40% (p less than 0.001).  It is proposed that reduced proprioception in elderly and osteoarthritic subjects may be responsible for initiation or advancement of degeneration of the knee.
Familial chondrocalcinosis due to calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition in English families.  Familial predisposition to chondrocalcinosis (CC) due to calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystal deposition is described in five English kindreds.  Two families were characterized by premature-onset polyarticular CC with little associated structural arthropathy.  In one of these families, recurrent childhood fits were strongly associated with subsequent development of CC.  Affected members of the other three families resembled sporadic disease in showing predominantly late-onset, oligoarticular CC with mild arthritis and destructive change in only one case.  Knee synovial fluid levels of inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) and nucleoside triphosphate pyrophosphate (NTPP) did not differ from those of 59 sporadic cases of CC due to CPPD, although PPi and NTPP levels in both groups were higher than in normal knee synovial fluid (P less than 0.0001).  Urinary PPi levels were not different from normal controls.  Screening for other metabolic abnormality was negative in all cases.  This is the first report of familial CC in the UK, and the first to associate this condition with childhood fits.  Absence of overt primary abnormality of PPi metabolism suggests that other factors relating to crystal nucleation/growth may be more relevant to predisposition in these cases.
Papillary carcinoma of thyroid with exuberant nodular fasciitis-like stroma. Report of three cases.  Three examples of an unusual morphologic variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) are reported.  The presence of a prominent stromal component resulted in low-power microscopic appearances resembling fibroadenoma, phyllodes tumor, or fibrocystic disease of the breast in two cases.  The carcinomatous component grew in the form of anastomosing narrow tubules, clustered glands, solid sheets with or without squamous differentiation, and/or papillae, and exhibited the typical nuclear features of PTC.  The abundant stroma had a nodular fasciitis-like quality and was composed of short fascicles of spindle cells separated by varying amounts of mucoid matrix, collagen, and extravasated red blood cells; this was interpreted as an exuberant mesenchymal reaction to the carcinoma.  The importance of recognizing this variant of PTC is that, when one encounters a fibroproliferative lesion of the thyroid, a diligent search should be made for papillary carcinoma.  This variant also must be distinguished from the vastly more aggressive papillary carcinomas with anaplastic transformation and the so-called carcinosarcomas.
Cauda equina syndrome associated with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts in ankylosing spondylitis: improvement following surgical therapy.  A case of cauda equina syndrome with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts complicating ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is described.  The value of computerised tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a non-invasive means of establishing the diagnosis is emphasised.  In contrast to previously reported cases the patient showed neurological improvement following surgical therapy.  Surgery may be indicated in some patients, particularly when there is nerve root compression by the arachnoid cysts and when the patient is seen early before irreversible damage to the cauda equina has occurred.
Effect of menopause and hormone replacement therapy on the urinary excretion of pyridinium cross-links.  Pyridinoline (Pyr) and deoxypyridinoline (D-Pyr) are two cross-links of collagen molecules that are present in the extracellular matrix and released during its degradation.  In contrast to the wide distribution of collagen, Pyr is present in bone and cartilage, but not in significant amounts in other connective tissues, and D-Pyr appears to be specific for bone tissue.  Therefore, the urinary excretion of Pyr and D-Pyr might be a sensitive marker of bone matrix degradation.  Using a specific high pressure liquid chromatography assay we have measured Pyr and D-Pyr cross-links in a 24-h and a fasting urine sample in 60 early postmenopausal women and 19 premenopausal women matched for age.  Menopause induced a 62% increase in Fu Pyr (49.8 +/- 18.7 vs.  30.8 +/- 8.0 pmol/mumol creatinine; P less than 0.001) and an 82% increase in Fu D-Pyr (8.2 +/- 3.4 vs.  4.5 +/- 1.4 pmol/mumol creatinine; P less than 0.001).  In 20 postmenopausal women on hormone replacement therapy, urinary Pyr and D-Pyr returned to premenopausal levels within 6 months, contrasting with unchanged levels during placebo treatment.  The 24-h excretion of Pyr and D-Pyr was significantly lower than the fasting excretion, but was similarly decreased after hormone replacement therapy.  Pyr and D-Pyr excretion measured in the same urinary sample were highly correlated (r = 0.85 for fasting and 0.83 for 24-h sampling), but correlations between fasting and 24-h values were weak (D-Pyr, r = 0.30; Pyr, r = 0.29; P less than 0.05 for both).  Correlations between urinary cross-links and other markers of bone turnover (Fu hydroxyproline/creatinine and plasma osteocalcin) were significant but low (Pyr vs.  osteocalcin, r = 0.29, P less than 0.05; Pyr vs.  hydroxyproline, r = 0/.34; P less than 0.01; D-Pyr vs.  osteocalcin, r = 0.39; P less than 0.01), except for D-Pyr vs.  hydroxyproline (r = 0.24; P = 0.07), suggesting that these markers reflect different events of bone metabolism.  Finally, a single measurement of the fasting excretion, but not of the 24-h excretion, of cross-links was significantly correlated (Pyr, r = 0.34; P less than 0.05; D-Pyr, r = -0.46; P less than 0.01), with the subsequent spontaneous rate of bone loss assessed by repeated measurements of the radial bone mineral content in 37 postmenopausal women.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS).
Dialysis arthropathy: a clinical, biochemical, radiological and histological study of 36 patients.  Out of a population of 97 haemodialysis patients, 36 patients with dialysis arthropathy were identified.  Dialysis arthropathy is a chronic symmetrical polyarthritis which affected 97 per cent of the patients who had been undergoing cuprophane haemodialysis for more than 10 years.  It commonly affected the shoulders, hips, hands, knees and wrists, worsening with time and extending to other joints.  Fifty-eight per cent of the patients complained of morning stiffness and 47 per cent complained of exacerbation of shoulder pain during or after haemodialysis.  Half of the patients also suffered from carpal tunnel syndrome, which recurred and was associated with a long-lasting disability.  The most common radiological abnormality was periarticular bone cysts, followed by articular erosions and a destructive spondyloarthropathy, but clinical symptoms were more common than radiological signs.  Patients with dialysis arthropathy had a higher C-reactive protein level than patients without arthropathy (18.6 mg/l versus 11.4 mg/l), indicative of an inflammatory process.  Some of the clinical manifestations of the disease correlated with levels of C-reactive protein and ferritin.  Serum ferritin levels correlated strongly with the units of blood transfused in the past five years (RS = 0.83), and the logarithm of ferritin level correlated weakly with C-reactive protein (r = 0.32).  Haemarthroses were documented in 19 per cent of patients.  Mean serum beta 2-microglobulin was elevated in the patients with (57.3 mg/l) and without arthropathy (50.7 mg/l), and there was no difference in the parathormone or aluminium levels between these groups.  Articular tissue was obtained in 25 patients; beta 2-microglobulin amyloid was present in 24.  Larger deposits were present in the capsular tissue, and these appeared to replace collagen bundles in eight cases.  Amyloid deposits replaced the lining layer in six cases.  It is likely therefore that amyloid disrupts normal joint function by replacing normal joint tissue.  Mild chronic synovitis with haemosiderin deposition were found in approximately 60 per cent of cases.  These findings suggest that amyloid derived from beta 2-microglobulin has a primary role in the pathogenesis of dialysis arthropathy, but there was also evidence of inflammatory processes.  It is suggested that iron overload or haemarthroses might contribute to the inflammation, but other factors, such as dialysis-related bioincompatibility reactions, may also have a role.
Pott's puffy tumor: a complication of frontal sinusitis.  In children sinusitis is a frequent complication of upper respiratory infections but an infrequently considered diagnosis.  Although most sinus infections are resolved without complications, when complications do occur they can be serious or life threatening.  The most common ones occur in the orbit, but CNS extension is not infrequent.  Osteomyelitis and resulting subperiosteal abscess of the frontal bone--the so-called Pott's puffy tumor--is a less common, and perhaps less frequently recognized, serious complication of frontal sinusitis.  This paper describes two patients with subperiosteal abscess resulting from frontal sinusitis, one with CNS and orbital extension.  A brief literature review is presented, and presentation, diagnosis, and treatment are discussed.
Spinal bone loss and ovulatory disturbances   BACKGROUND.  Osteoporosis develops in women with estrogen deficiency and amenorrhea who lose bone at an accelerated rate.  It is not known to what extent bone loss differs between ovulatory women with regular menstrual cycles who are training intensely and those who are sedentary.  METHODS.  We measured the density of cancellous spinal bone from the 12th thoracic vertebra to the 3rd lumbar vertebra by quantitative computed tomography on two occasions one year apart in 66 premenopausal women 21 to 42 years of age.  All the women had two consecutive ovulatory cycles immediately before entering the study.  Twenty-one women were training for a marathon, 22 ran regularly but less intensively, and 23 had normal levels of activity.  The lengths of the women's menstrual cycles and luteal phases, diet, exercise levels, and hormonal levels were also determined.  We defined ovulatory disturbances as anovulatory cycles and cycles with short luteal phases.  RESULTS.  The mean (+/- SD) spinal bone density in the 66 women decreased 3.0 +/- 4.8 mg per cubic centimeter per year (2.0 percent per year) (P less than 0.001).  Amenorrhea did not develop in any woman during the year of observation (only 2.7 percent of the cycles were greater than 36 days long).  Ovulatory disturbances occurred in 29 percent of all cycles, however.  Bone loss was strongly associated with these disturbances (r = 0.54, 24 percent of the variance).  The 13 women who had anovulatory cycles lost bone mineral at a rate of 6.4 +/- 3.8 mg per cubic centimeter per year (4.2 percent per year).  The women training for a marathon had menstrual cycles similar to those of the women in the other two groups.  CONCLUSION.  Decreases in spinal bone density among women with differing exercise habits correlated with asymptomatic disturbances of ovulation (without amenorrhea) and not with physical activity.
Combined anterior and posterior fusion for spinal deformity in myelomeningocele.  Since 1973, 50 of 54 children have been treated by the author with a combined anterior and posterior fusion.  Twenty males and 34 females, ranging in age from 1 to 16 years, have been followed for a mean period of 5.5 years.  Sixteen patients with a kyphosis averaging 113 degrees (range, 77 to 170 degrees) had correction of deformity to a mean of 35 degrees.  Thirty-seven patients with a scoliosis averaging 73 degrees (range, 20 to 135 degrees) had correction to an average of 34 degrees (range, 0 to 75 degrees).  There were 4 cases of deep wound infection successfully treated with drainage and antibiotics and only one case required implant removal after fusion/maturation.  A pseudarthrosis was noted by radiograph in 6 patients, 3 of whom had isolated asymptomatic lumbosacral pseudarthroses.  Three patients had pseudarthrosis at the thoracolumbar junction.  These required repair and were successfully treated by supplemental posterior fusion resulting in an overall pseudarthrosis rate of 5.7%.  Anterior fusion of the dysraphic spine allows greater correction of both spinal deformity and pelvic obliquity in addition to contributing significant strength to the fusion mass.  Segmental spinal instrumentation with sublaminar and pedicular wiring to custom-contoured Luque rods provides excellent correction and immediate postoperative stability.
Surgical treatment of double major scoliosis. Improvement of the lumbar curve after fusion of the thoracic curve.  We have evaluated two methods of surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic double major scoliosis in 59 patients.  In group 1, 31 patients were treated by fusion of the upper curve only.  In group 2, 28 patients had lumbar fusions also including most of the lower curve.  The magnitude of the lower curve and the correction obtained in traction were good indicators of the correction achieved postoperatively.  Forty-four patients were reviewed at a minimum of 10 years after operation.  Those in group 1 showed sustained improvement of the lower curve with minimal stiffness and pain.  Group 2 patients had lumbar curves of similar severity at review, but had significantly more low back pain and stiffness.  The number of lumbar segments which remained mobile appeared to be a critical factor in determining the outcome.  Selective fusion of the upper curve in double major scoliosis produces satisfactory results if the lumbar curve is less than 50 degrees.  It may also be appropriate for flexible lumbar curves of larger angle.
Evaluation of ultrasound in the diagnosis of pathologic processes in the parotid gland.  The values of ultrasound in differentiation of pathologic processes in the parotid gland were studied in 61 patients.  The ultrasound findings were compared with operative and histologic findings.  In 28 patients with chronic inflammatory processes, the ultrasound findings were in complete correlation with the histologic findings, showing enlarged parotid glands, homogenous glandular epithelium, and small, multiple cysts.  In 31 patients with a tumor of the parotid gland, ultrasound scanning detected the presence of the tumor.  In determining the location of the tumor, the method is highly specific when it is localized in the superficial lobe (100%), and it is less specific when it is localized in the deep lobe of the parotid gland.  Also, it is highly specific in determination of tumor size (96%).  In two cases with retention cysts, the ultrasound findings also correlated with the histologic and operative findings.  The results obtained show that ultrasound is a reliable diagnostic method for detection of pathologic changes in the parotid gland.
Musculoskeletal abnormalities in a patient with juvenile hypothyroidism.  Abnormalities in growth and development are the most striking clinical features of juvenile acquired hypothyroidism.  Therefore, physicians should consider the diagnosis of hypothyroidism in any child with musculoskeletal growth dysfunction.  Drs Kilpatrick and Fincher describe a case demonstrating the severe and potentially irreversible effects of prolonged, untreated hypothyroidism.
Some osseous and soft tissue causes of human intervertebral canal (foramen) stenosis.  Much attention has been paid to the causes of vertebral canal stenosis in humans but relatively little has been documented with regard to intervertebral canal (intervertebral "foramen," lateral spinal canal, nerve root canal) stenosis.  As the dural sleeve ends at the outer opening of the intervertebral canal, a false "normal" myelogram is possible when a space occupying lesion occurs beyond the subarachnoid space.  Also, if stenosis affects only vascular structures, compression of these structures cannot be noted during myelography, so venous stasis may be overlooked.  Our cadaveric study investigates some causes of intervertebral canal stenosis due to encroachment by bony and soft tissue structures, and low magnification photomicrographs are used to illustrate some causes of stenosis.
Indomethacin inhibition of middle ear bone resorption.  Localized osteoclastic bone resorption is responsible for the pathological changes within the middle and inner ear, which result in hearing loss and vertigo in chronic otitis media and otosclerosis.  The local control of osteoclastic bone resorption is incompletely understood.  Various small, locally active molecules, cytokines, have been shown to affect resorptive processes.  Additionally, prostaglandins and their inhibitors have been shown to modulate the resorptive process in a number of in vitro studies.  In this study, indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, was tested in a model of localized bone resorption, the pressurized gerbil bulla.  After the experimental period, indomethacin was found to inhibit the number of osteoclasts and the resorptive area on the inner surface of the bulla.  Therefore, it is likely that endogenous cyclooxygenase metabolites are intermediates in the sequence of cellular events, which results in localized bone resorption as in some systemic models.
Invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible presenting as a chronic osteomyelitis: report of a case.  A case of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible initially thought to be chronic osteomyelitis is reviewed.  Discussion of the origin of the tumor and several imaging techniques used for differentiating maxillofacial infection from neoplasm are discussed.  The difficulty of diagnosis of chronic painful maxillofacial lesions illustrates the need for a high degree of suspicion concerning any inflammatory lesion not responding to appropriate therapy.  Accurate diagnosis and treatment of such lesions most often necessitates microscopic examination.
An eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an L-tryptophan containing product.  A syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of L-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the Centers for Disease Control.  We report a case of this new clinical entity, highlighted by severe myositis, and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes.
Diagnosis and treatment of shoulder injuries in the athlete.  The goal of the treatment team dealing with patients who have sports-related shoulder injuries is to return them to their previous activity.  There is no substitute for knowledge of anatomy, diagnosis modalities, or current treatments.  Realistically, some of the athletes are not able to return to the level of competition they performed originally.  For those patients, recommendations and suggestions for alternatives based on a sound knowledge of arthroscopic principles need to be considered.  One of the greatest roles for the nurse treating these patients may be the temporary loan of her shoulder for them to lean on.
Mineral balance in infantile cortical hyperostosis: effects of corticosteroids.  The effects on mineral metabolism of therapeutic doses of corticosteroids were investigated in infantile cortical hyperostosis; in four untreated cases the calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium balances were strongly positive.  In one severe case, treatment with prednisolone was associated with an alteration to negative calcium and magnesium balance, and faecal losses of calcium were particularly high.  This effect persisted for at least three months after the steroids had been discontinued, and during this period there was pronounced retardation of linear growth.  Six months after the treatment had been stopped mineral balance was again positive and there was rapid 'catch up' in growth.  In infancy, the negative effect of corticosteroids on calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium metabolism may contribute to inhibition of bone growth and steroid stunting.
Analysis of 61 cases of vertebral osteomyelitis.  Sixty-one cases of bacterial vertebral osteomyelitis from July 1969 to July 1979 were analyzed.  The ages of the 49 men and 12 women ranged from 21 to 66 years.  The portal of entry was hematogenous in 58 cases, gunshot wounds in two cases, and and adjacent retroperitoneal abscess in one case.  Biopsy was performed in 60 patients.  There were 15 complications related to the disease.  Gram-negative rods were the predominant bacteria isolated.  Blood culture was positive in 13 of the 26 (50%) patients tested.  Eleven of the 13 (85%) organisms isolated from the blood cultures correlated with organisms recovered from biopsy specimens.  Eleven of the patients had more than one disk level involved.  Of the 61 patients, 29 went on to spontaneous fusion, 17 were lost to follow-up study, 11 failed to fuse, three had surgical fusion, and one patient died.  Recommendations for diagnosis included the collection of blood cultures and radionuclide bone scans.  Management recommendations included systemic antibiotics for at least three weeks and immobilization with either bed rest or spinal orthoses.  Surgery was indicated if an abscess was present, neurologic complications occurred, instability became a factor, or the medical treatment failed.
Surgical treatment of scoliosis in a spinal muscular atrophy population.  Seventy-eight patients were diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy between 1969 and 1988.  Scoliosis developed in 34 of these patients, an incidence of 60%.  Thirty-one patients could be retrospectively reviewed by chart review or interview.  The average follow-up was 11.5 years.  Onset of scoliosis averaged 8.8 years.  Twenty-two patients were treated nonsurgically and nine surgically.  Patients had improved sitting balance and endurance after surgery.  Complications of surgery included loss of correction in one patient, one pseudarthrosis, and one patient who required prolonged ventilatory support.  The prolonged survival of patients with spinal muscular atrophy justifies aggressive orthopaedic management of scoliosis to prevent progression of deformity and improve sitting comfort.
Posterior transfer of the adductors in children who have cerebral palsy. A long-term study.  Seventy-eight posterior transfers of the adductors of the hip in forty-two children who has spastic cerebral palsy were reviewed an average of 5.7 years after the operation (range, two to 14.6 years).  The results were assessed on the basis of the patient's ability to walk, the range of motion of the affected hip or hips, and the radiographic measurements.  In 88 per cent of the patients, the transfer was successful in improving or maintaining abduction, extension, functional walking, and stability of the hip.  The failures were all in patients who were unable to walk and who had spastic quadriplegia.  Tenotomy of the iliopsoas tendon at the time of the transfer procedure resulted in an improved range of motion of the hip.
That old hip. The osteoporosis process.  Osteoporosis is a major health concern that will contribute to an increasing number of hip fractures as the population ages.  Researchers are continuing to evaluate the role that decreased level of estrogen at menopause and prolonged calcium insufficiency play in the development of osteoporosis.  In addition, many health care recommendations are aimed at maximizing peak bone mass and preventing bone loss to decrease the chance of hip fracture.  New studies are evaluating the efficacy of experimental medications to rebuild bone mass once osteoporosis has developed.  Current prevention guidelines include adequate calcium and vitamin D intake and moderate exercise.  At menopause, estrogen replacement therapy is recommended for those younger than 50 years or considered at high risk for developing osteoporosis.  All people are encouraged to decrease the risk of fracture by evaluating their home environment for hazards that might contribute to falls.  Nursing needs to develop new strategies and interventions to educate the public about osteoporosis, improve the quality of life for persons with osteoporosis, and decrease the osteoporotic hip fracture mortality rate.  Will it rise to the challenge?.
Serum enzyme alterations in chronic muscle disease. A biopsy-based diagnostic assessment.  The results of interpretation of muscle biopsies were compared retrospectively to activities of serum enzymes and isoenzymes.  A total of 137 patients seen at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation in 1986 and 1987 were included in this study.  Serum enzymes evaluated were CK, AST, LD, and aldolase (ALS), as well as the percentage CK-MB isoenzyme.  The units of CK-MB and the ratios of CK to AST, LD, and ALS were calculated.  Descriptive statistics, Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance, and stepwise logistic regression were performed.  A diagnostic algorithm was constructed using a computer-assisted rule generation program.  Myopathic diseases yielded a greater mean increase in serum enzyme activity than atrophic diseases.  By multivariate stepwise logistic regression, increases in serum AST and CK activity were independently associated with the presence of inflammation in a muscle biopsy specimen.  The diagnostic algorithm allowed for the separation of myopathies from atrophies and could identify cases of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy and polymyositis.
Deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the ligamentum flavum: evaluation with MR imaging and CT.  Four patients had spinal canal stenosis associated with deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate within the ligamentum flavum.  Radiologic evaluation was performed with magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography, and surgery was performed on all four patients.  Pathologic examination of the surgical specimens demonstrated deposits of calcium pyrophosphate crystals within the ligamentum flavum.  Focal enlargement of the ligamentum flavum was present in the cervical spine (n = 1), while a more diffuse, bilateral enlargement was identified in the lumbar spine (n = 3).  Enlargement of the ligament either caused or was a component of spinal stenosis that caused neurologic signs or symptoms.  Three of the patients had evidence of calcium pyrophosphate deposition elsewhere.  Deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate within the ligamentum flavum causing either focal or diffuse enlargement can be associated with significant spinal stenosis.
Cartilage expression of a type II collagen mutation in an inherited form of osteoarthritis associated with a mild chondrodysplasia.  In a family who expressed severe dominantly inherited osteoarthritis, the underlying mutation was traced by genomic sequencing to a single base change which predicts an amino acid substitution of cysteine for arginine at residue 519 of the triple-helical domain of the type II collagen molecule (Ala-Kokko, L., C.  T.  Baldwin, R.  W.  Moskowitz, and D.  J.  Prockop.  1990.  Proc.  Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  USA.  87:6565-6568).  In the present study we examined whether this predicted protein phenotype was evident in articular cartilage obtained from an affected family member who underwent hip surgery.  The cartilage collagen was solubilized by CNBr digestion.  Cysteine residues were labeled by reduction and alkylation with 14C-iodoacetate.  Collagen CNBr-peptides were fractionated by ion exchange and reverse phase column chromatography.  One peptide from the alpha 1(II) chain, alpha 1(II) CB8, was found to be radiolabeled.  Tryptic peptides were prepared from it and identified by microsequence analysis.  The results show that approximately one-quarter of the alpha 1(II) chains present in the polymeric extracellular collagen of the patient's cartilage contained the Arg519-to-Cys substitution.  The protein exhibited other abnormal properties including disulfide-bonded alpha 1(II)-dimers and signs of posttranslational overmodification.  The premature cartilage failure and osteoarthritis are presumably a result of the abnormal type II collagen being expressed in the cartilage matrix.
The use of the Ilizarov concept with the AO/ASIF tubular fixateur in the treatment of segmental defects.  For the treatment of segmental defects of less than 4 cm, cancellous autografting remains the treatment of choice.  Pedicled or free cortical grafts (fibula, ribs, iliac crest) often are not strong enough, particularly when used in the femur.  Allografts, especially appealing because of the theoretic unlimited supply, should not be considered for segmental diaphyseal defects because they remain dead spacers, remodelled only very slowly and incompletely, and are often complicated by late infection.  The technique of distraction histogenesis used by Putti and Anderson, improved and further differentiated towards corticotomy and fragment transport by Ilizarov, is a further possibility of treating long, segmental bone defects.  Already clinical and experimental data clearly show that the effect of distraction histogenesis can be obtained using many different types of external fixators.  Therefore, we should use as simple a fixator construction as possible.  The standard unilateral sagittal frame we suggest is derived from a two-tube AO fixator using only a few additional elements.  The majority of cases with segmental defects and minor additional axial or rotational deformities (which can be corrected primarily) can be treated with such a fixator.  The quality of the regenerate may be improved with a motorized, continuous transport system and by better soft-tissue coverage using early flaps.  Interface healing is very probably improved by cancellous grafting and internal fixation after the transport period, thus decreasing the fixator time.
A prospective necropsy study of arthritis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  Thirty-two knee and 23 sternoclavicular joints from 35 subjects with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were examined prospectively at necropsy.  There were two instances of opportunistic infectious arthritis: one caused by Staphylococcus aureus, the other by Sporothrix schenckii.  In five other subjects, para-articular bone was infiltrated by granulomatous or neoplastic sequelae of the human immunodeficiency virus infection.  There was no immunohistochemical (p24 antigen) or other evidence for existence of a specific acquired immunodeficiency syndrome arthritis.
Osteoporosis.  Osteoporosis, a condition of decreased bone tissue that increases the likelihood of fracture, places a significant burden on our society in terms of health cost and morbidity.  The most common type of osteoporosis is involutional, and two subtypes are recognized: type 1 and type 2.  Type 1, or postmenopausal, osteoporosis is most commonly seen in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women from ages 51 to 75.  Estrogen deficiency is the most dominant factor in the pathogenesis of this disorder.  Type 2, or aging related, osteoporosis is seen in elderly women and men aged 70 or more.  Bone loss in this group is related to aging, estrogen deficiency, negative calcium balance, and a variety of environmental and genetic factors.  The best approach to the management of osteoporosis is to develop a lifelong strategy that maximizes peak bone mass and minimizes aging-related and postmenopausal bone loss.  Estrogen is the only medication approved for the prevention of bone loss that is in general use.  Other strategies to prevent bone loss (and maximize peak bone mass) include adequate calcium intake, adequate exercise, and avoidance of excess alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine use.
Isolated muscular sarcoidosis causing fever of unknown origin: the value of gallium-67 imaging.  An unusual case of a patient with a long-standing fever of unknown origin (FUO) is presented whose gallium-67 (67Ga) images revealed increased activity only in the calf muscles bilaterally.  Other imaging modalities also failed to show chest or other abnormal findings.  Subsequent biopsy of the right gastrocnemius muscle revealed noncaseating granulomas consistent with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis.  When using 67Ga to evaluate a patient with a FUO, imaging of the extremities should always be included.  Also, when abnormal Ga-67 uptake is present in the extremities, sarcoidosis should be included in the differential diagnosis.
Nursing management of the adolescent with idiopathic scoliosis.  Management of the adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patient has many intricate considerations.  Whether the patient is braced or surgery is recommended, there is a lot of teaching, assessing, and compassion when dealing with adolescents whose biggest concern is being like their peers.  It is important to allow as much independence in decision making as possible, whether it be about bracing or surgical intervention, as long as they clearly understand the consequences.  Newer, better surgical instruments, anesthesia, nursing care, and postoperative mobility all have changed the management of the operative scoliosis patient significantly.  Nursing assessment of neurologic, respiratory, function, emotional, and developmental needs of the adolescent patient, however, have not changed.  If we, as nurses, understand the rationale for assessments, treatments, and restrictions, we can teach our patients and their families.
Expanded Clinical Evaluation of Lovastatin (EXCEL) study results. I. Efficacy in modifying plasma lipoproteins and adverse event profile in 8245 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia   In the Expanded Clinical Evaluation of Lovastatin (EXCEL) Study, a multicenter, double-blind, diet- and placebo-controlled trial, we evaluated the efficacy and safety of lovastatin in 8245 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia.  Patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo or lovastatin at a dosage of 20 mg once daily, 40 mg once daily, 20 mg twice daily, or 40 mg twice daily for 48 weeks.  Lovastatin produced sustained, dose-related (P less than .001) changes as follows (for dosages of 20 to 80 mg/d): decreased low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level (24% to 40%), increased high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level (6.6% to 9.5%), decreased total cholesterol level (17% to 29%), and decreased triglyceride level (10% to 19%).  The National Cholesterol Education Program's low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level goal of less than 4.14 mmol/L (160 mg/dL) was achieved by 80% to 96% of patients, while the less than 3.36 mmol/L (130 mg/dL) goal was achieved by 38% to 83% of patients.  The difference between lovastatin and placebo in the incidence of clinical adverse experiences requiring discontinuation was small, ranging from 1.2% at 20 mg twice daily to 1.9% at 80 mg/d.  Successive transaminase level elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal were observed in 0.1% of patients receiving placebo and 20 mg/d of lovastatin, increasing to 0.9% in those receiving 40 mg/d and 1.5% in those receiving 80 mg/d of lovastatin (P less than .001 for trend).  Myopathy, defined as muscle symptoms with a creatine kinase elevation greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal, was found in only one patient (0.1%) receiving 40 mg once daily and four patients (0.2%) receiving 80 mg/d of lovastatin.  Thus, lovastatin, when added after an adequate trial of a prudent diet, is a highly effective and generally well-tolerated treatment for patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
Coexistence of cervical and lumbar disc disease.  A retrospective analysis of 200 patients requiring cervical disc surgery was performed to determine the frequency of coexistent lumbar disc or spine abnormalities.  The duration of follow-up ranged from 5 to 25 years, averaging 14 years.  Sixty percent were women and 40% were men, their ages ranging from 25-73 years.  Antecedent motor vehicle injury had occurred in 49 cases and work injury to the spine in 23.  Sixty-four percent had no history of prior back injury.  It was found that over 31% had undergone lumbar disc surgery, and a high number of patients demonstrated abnormal lumbar radiographs or myelograms, including 78 with bulging discs, 100 with major root defects, 78 with minor root defects, 8 with spinal stenosis, and 7 with spondylolisthesis.  Myelograms were normal in 22 cases.  The sites of lumbar abnormalities included L4-5 (110), L5-S1 (90), and multilevel (8).  There was a higher incidence of lumbar disc abnormalities associated with multilevel cervical spondylosis.  There also was a relationship between residual symptoms and myelographic abnormalities.  Two studies in the authors' institution suggest an autoimmune basis for the frequent coexistence of cervical and lumbar disc disease, namely the demonstration of antigenic properties in the nucleus pulposus and high serum immunoglobulins.
Analysis of sagittal plane instability of the lumbar spine in vivo.  Segmental instability secondary to degenerative disc disease may result in chronic low-back pain.  In the sagittal plane, segmental instability can be characterized during lumbar motion from full extension to full flexion.  The authors studied this movement using a translational method for the kinematic analysis, implementing a new concept known as the instability factor.  Both translational and angular components of motion are evaluated.  By computing the incremental motion parameters at different stages of spinal bending, the total amount of translation and angulation is obtained and combined in a ratio termed the instability factor.  This factor increases with linear instability and decreases with rotational instability.  The authors reviewed 12 control subjects and 36 patients with chronic low-back pain.  The diagnoses of patients were categorized into three groups: idiopathic low-back pain, lumbar disc prolapse, and degenerative disc disease.  Lateral radiographs of each subject's spine at the L4-5 level were obtained using low dose radiography and were performed serially as the subjects moved from full extension to full flexion.  It was found that the group of patients with degenerative disc disease had an average age-corrected instability factor of 37.3 (mm/radian), which was significantly larger than that of normal subjects 25.5 (mm/radian), (P = 0.0065).  No significant difference was seen in the instability factor of patients with idiopathic low-back pain or lumbar disc prolapse.
Hypercalciuria in parathyroid disorders: effect of dietary sodium control.  Moderate dietary Na restriction (80 mmol/d for 7 days) during constant Ca intake can reduce high urinary Ca excretion to normal levels in idiopathic hypercalciuria (IH).  A similar protocol was used to test its effect in primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) and also in hypoparathyroid subjects (HOPT) during treatment with dihydrotachysterol (DHT).  Nine subjects with PHPT, 10 with HOPT, and one with pseudo-HOPT were evaluated after Na-restricted (80 mmol/d) and Na-supplemented (200 mmol/d) diets for 7 days each with dietary Ca constant.  Na restriction resulted in a decrease in mean urinary 24-hour Ca excretion in PHPT subjects (10.6 v 7.6 mmol/d [424 v 304 mg], P less than 0.0001) and in one pseudo-HOPT subject, similar to the pattern seen previously in IH subjects.  In contrast, Na restriction was not accompanied by significant change in Ca excretion in HOPT.  There was no change in serum immunoreactive PTH (iPTH) or 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D levels in either group when Na intake was altered.  Thus, the presence of parathyroid hormone (PTH) is necessary for sodium-related alterations in urinary Ca to occur.  The effect of PTH appears to be "permissive" rather than "active." Dietary Na restriction may have a role in the management of hypercalciuria in mild PHPT cases when parathyroidectomy is contraindicated.
Deformities of the hip in adults who have sickle-cell disease and had avascular necrosis in childhood. A natural history of fifty-two patients.  We report the natural course of the hip in fifty-two patients (ninety-five hips) who had sickle-cell disease and had had avascular necrosis in childhood.  There were twenty-one African, twenty-one West Indian, and ten Mediterranean patients.  At the most recent follow-up examination (at an average duration of nineteen years after the onset of the disease), 80 per cent of the hips that had been affected by avascular necrosis during childhood were painful and had permanent damage with regard to decreased mobility, limb-length discrepancy, and an abnormal gait.  When the patients were evaluated, at an average age of thirty-one years, fifteen hips (16 per cent) had had an operation for progressive disability and sixty (63 per cent) had major problems because of pain.  Of the twenty hips (21 per cent) that were not painful, five were in patients who had an abnormal gait, with decreased agility.  The mean Iowa hip-rating score at the most recent follow-up examination was 73 points (range, 30 to 100 points).  Correlations were found between the hip score and the patient's age at the onset of the disease and at the latest follow-up, between the hip score and degenerative changes in the hip, and between degenerative changes and radiographic evidence of deformity of the hip.
Natural history of degenerative spondylolisthesis. Pathogenesis and natural course of the slippage.  To clarify the natural course of degenerative spondylolisthesis, the mechanism and progression of disk slippage were studied clinically and radiographically in 40 patients.  Progressive slippage was observed in 12 patients (30%).  No progression of slippage was noted in patients who showed narrowing of the intervertebral disk, spur formation, subcartilaginous sclerosis, or ossification of ligaments.  These suggest that the mechanisms of spinal restabilization prevent progression of the disease.  General joint laxity was observed in many patients (65%), and this was believed to be involved in the pathogenic mechanism of this disease.  There was no correlation between the clinical symptoms and progression of slippage.  These findings suggest that careful consideration of the natural mechanisms of spinal restabilization as well as the natural course of the disease is important.
Elevated expression of the genes for transforming growth factor-beta 1 and type VI collagen in diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Full-thickness skin biopsies obtained from four patients with rapidly progressive diffuse fasciitis associated with the Eosinophilia-Myalgia syndrome (EMS) were examined for the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), type VI collagen, and fibronectin genes employing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridizations.  The immunohistochemical studies demonstrated increased deposition of TGF-beta, type VI collagen, and fibronectin epitopes in the extracellular matrix of the fascia in comparison to the adjacent dermis in the same specimens.  Increased levels of type VI collagen mRNA, as evidenced by positive in situ hybridization signals with an alpha 2(VI) collagen cDNA, were also found in the fascia in comparison with the dermis.  In situ hybridizations of affected fascia with a human sequence-specific TGF-beta 1 cDNA demonstrated numerous fibroblasts displaying positive hybridization signals indicative of high levels of transcripts for this cytokine.  In contrast, no hybridization signal for TGF-beta 1 was detected in fibroblasts in the adjacent dermis.  These findings suggest that TGF-beta 1 may play an important role in the development of the connective tissue alterations present in EMS-associated diffuse fasciitis.
Bone trabecular pattern analysis in Down syndrome with the use of computed panoramic radiography. Part II: Visual pattern analysis with the frequency and gradational enhancement.  Visual pattern analysis of mandibular bone trabeculation of 51 patients with Down syndrome and 78 normal persons was performed by using rotational panoramic radiography with a laser scan system.  The findings for patients with Down syndrome were consistent with geromorphism, one of the somatic characteristics of Down syndrome.
Spinal rehabilitation by work tolerance based on objective physical capacity assessment of dysfunction. A prospective study with control subjects and twelve-month review.  A work tolerance program was used for rehabilitation treatment of 45 patients with spinal dysfunction.  Patients entering the treatment group were prospectively evaluated by objective physical capacity assessment (PCA).  Treatment patients averaged 4 weeks of three, one half day sessions per week.  These patients were compared with a control group of 33 patients who did not participate in the rehabilitation program but were evaluated by PCA.  A telephone review of all patients in each group was carried out at 6- and 12-month follow-up.  Results demonstrated that 78% of the rehabilitation treatment group were discharged with an improved functional work capacity.  Most importantly, at 6-month follow-up, 73.0% of patients in the treatment group were productively working while only 38% of control group patients were actively employed.  In addition, 84.4% showed an improvement in spinal range of motion.  The subjective pain scale ratings of these treatment patients demonstrated only 44.4% decreased pain, while 51.1% stayed the same, and two patients increased discomfort.  Further medical diagnostics or intervention was required in 24.4% of treatment patients.  These findings definitely show that a spinal rehabilitation work-tolerance program based on objective measurement will enhance an increased rate of return to productive employment activity.  There is poor correlation of subjective pain assessment when compared to objective PCAs.  Therefore, recommendations of patients for return-to-productive work should be based pain ratings.  When adjusted for nonselection patients, the authors community-based hospital program showed similar results to other programs.  The work tolerance and rehabilitation program in Concord, New Hampshire, demonstrated a significant cost-effective approach; being less expensive, less time-consuming, and less psychologically oriented.
Growth disturbance in Legg-Calve-Perthes disease and the consequences of surgical treatment.  Seventy-two patients with Legg-Calve-Perthes disease were studied to assess the interference with proximal femoral growth as a result of the disease itself and of surgical treatment.  Twenty-five patients were treated nonoperatively, 20 were treated by femoral varus derotation osteotomy, and 27 by innominate osteotomy.  All patients were studied clinically for evidence of abductor weakness and leg-length discrepancy.  They were also studied roentgenographically for evidence of femoral head deformity and trochanteric overgrowth.  The overall results showed a 6% incidence of leg-length discrepancy greater than 2 cm after both operative and nonoperative treatment.  The articulo-trochanteric distance (ATD) was less than +5 mm in 23% of patients, of which 43% had a positive Trendelenburg sign.  A significantly lower mean ATD was found in patients treated by femoral varus osteotomy, which should be avoided in patients over eight years of age.  The study also demonstrated a strong association between coxa magna and growth disturbance of the proximal femoral physis manifesting itself as either a leg-length discrepancy or as a low ATD.  The significant effects of growth disturbance after treatment must be considered, as well as the sphericity of the healed femoral head, in the final assessment in Legg-Calve-Perthes disease.
Assessment of Proplast-Teflon disc replacements [published erratum appears in J Oral Maxillofac Surg 1991 Feb;49(2):220]   This retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which Proplast-Teflon (Vitek Inc, Houston, TX) replacements were used.  Among the problems noted were pain, malocclusion, restricted opening, and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa.
The role of an autoantigen, histidyl-tRNA synthetase, in the induction and maintenance of autoimmunity.  Patients with systemic autoimmune diseases make specific autoantibodies that are directed against self structures.  According to one view, these autoantibodies arise as a result of an immune response to foreign antigens such as infectious agents that share, by molecular mimicry, common structures with host proteins.  An alternative view is that the target autoantigen itself initiates, selects, and sustains autoantibody synthesis.  We show here that anti-Jo-1 autoantibodies directed against histidyl-tRNA synthetase in the human autoimmune muscle disease polymyositis undergo, in addition to spectrotype broadening and class switching, the sine qua non of an immune response to the target antigen--affinity maturation to that antigen.  We demonstrate further that these autoantibodies, unlike anti-synthetase antibodies induced in mice immunized with heterologous antigen, bind only nonlinear epitopes on the native human synthetase that remain exposed when the enzyme is complexed to tRNA(His).  These data suggest that the native target autoantigen itself has played a direct role in selecting and sustaining the autoantibody response and sharply restrict the time and the way in which a molecular mimic might act to provoke autoantibodies.
Juvenile intervertebral disc calcification: recognition, management, and pathogenesis.  Juvenile intervertebral disc calcification is an uncommon disorder of childhood, characterized by calcification of the nucleus pulposus of one or more intervertebral discs.  Calcification may remain dormant or subsequently become symptomatic.  The symptoms include fever, malaise, and neck pain and are associated with an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and, occasionally, leukocytosis.  Although disc protrusion occurs in 38% of patients, neurological signs are distinctly uncommon.  We report the case of a patient with a herniated T2-T3 calcified intervertebral disc and compressive myelopathy.  Juvenile intervertebral disc calcification is generally a self-limiting disease that seldom requires an operation.  The symptoms are transient, and resorption of the disc calcification is the rule once symptoms occur.  Neither the cause of the disc calcification nor the trigger for the onset of symptoms is known.  An inflammatory response within the disc appears to give rise to clinical symptoms and is associated with eventual resorption of the disc calcification.
Growth promoting peptides in osteoarthritis: insulin, insulin-like growth factor-1, growth hormone.  Alterations of cartilage and bone, as seen radiographically, are fundamental features of osteoarthritis (OA).  Endogenous compounds that regulate bone and cartilage metabolism were quantified by radioimmunoassay in patients with OA and in suitable normotensive controls matched for age, sex, race, height, and weight.  Levels of 3 growth promoting compounds were abnormal in OA as demonstrated by low levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and elevated levels of insulin and growth hormone (GH) compared to controls.  Our findings support a role for these peptides in the pathophysiology of OA.
Drugs to lower uric acid levels. How to avoid misuse in gouty arthritis.  Several points regarding the use of drugs to lower uric acid levels deserve emphasis.  First, these agents are not useful in the management of acute gout.  Second, all forms of the drugs should be initiated at low dose with gradual increments to achieve a serum uric acid level between 5 and 6 mg/dL.  There are no data to support the widely presumed notion that dropping the uric acid level to a very low range (1 to 3 mg/dL) hastens resorption of tophi or improves joint function.  Third, the uricosuric agents probenecid (Benemid) and sulfinpyrazone (Anturane) interact with a number of drugs, and both the patient and physician should be aware of this.  Finally, and most important, careful and frequent monitoring is needed during the first several months of therapy with these drugs.
Persistence of monosodium urate crystals and low-grade inflammation in the synovial fluid of patients with untreated gout.  Synovial fluid (SF) from 74 asymptomatic knees of patients with gout was analyzed.  These patients had never been treated with serum uric acid-lowering agents.  SF samples were analyzed for the presence of crystals and for cell counts, using undiluted SF directly in a Niebauer cell counting chamber.  Thirty-seven of the aspirated knees had previously been inflamed, and monosodium urate (MSU) crystals were seen in SF aspirates from 36 of them (97%).  Of the 37 knees that had never been inflamed, only 8 contained MSU crystals (P less than 0.00001).  After reaching the joint, MSU crystals will persist in the SF as long as the serum uric acid level has not been lowered by appropriate treatment.  In this situation, analysis of SF is an excellent diagnostic test for the intercritical gout.  The mean cell count in the 44 SF samples that contained MSU crystals was 449/mm3 (95% confidence interval 310-589); the mean cell count in the 30 SF without MSU crystals was 64/mm3 (95% confidence interval 34-95) (P less than 0.00002).  The SF samples that contained MSU crystals also had a higher percentage of polymorphonuclear leukocytes than those without MSU crystals (P less than 0.002).  These data suggest that there is a low-grade inflammation present in the knees of patients with MSU crystals, the consequences of which should be investigated.
Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in association with pulmonary tuberculosis.  Three white male patients with advanced cavitary pulmonary tuberculosis presented with HOA.  No other pathology to explain the osteoarthropathy was detected.  The osteoarthropathy responded symptomatically to NSAI drugs and treatment of tuberculosis but resolved radiologically in only one patient.
Evaluation of current extrication orthoses in immobilization of the unstable cervical spine.  An experiment was designed to evaluate the comparative stabilizing efficacy of several widely used semi-rigid orthoses applied to unstable fresh cadaver cervical spines subject to load.  Cadaver specimens were surgically destabilized at the C4-5 segment.  Lateral radiographs of the destabilized spine were obtained before and after collar placement and after the application of a 5-pound flexion force.  Data analysis employing a one-way analysis of variance showed no statistically significant difference in the Necloc's, Philadelphia Collar's, or the Stifneck's ability to stabilize the cervical spine against a deforming flexion force (P greater than 0.05).  They all provide translational stability while allowing angular changes to occur with application of the flexion force.  The Philadelphia Collar Halo System is statistically superior to all three of the aforementioned collars in prevention of both translation and sagittal rotation (P less than 0.05).
Simple bone cysts. The effects of methylprednisolone on synovial cells in culture.  Ten years ago, a protocol using Depo-Medrol injections was developed for the treatment of unicameral bone cysts.  This concept, designed by tumor surgeons and based on theory, has been cautiously approached.  However, reproducible results have gradually increased clinical acceptance.  Understanding the healing process has been restricted because of the lack of an experimental model.  In an attempt to elucidate this mechanism of healing, a cell culture model was used to investigate the effects of methylprednisolone on synovial cells.  Initially, three doses of the drug were tested and maximal changes were noted with the concentration of 40 mg/ml.  Changes were then quantified by morphology, DNA assay, cell protein analysis, and electron microscopy.  Results suggest that methylprednisolone may have a direct effect on the cellular component of unicameral bone cysts.
Stapes surgery in osteogenesis imperfecta: analysis of postoperative hearing loss.  The disappointing results in 12 of 58 stapedectomies, including 4 revision operations, performed on osteogenesis imperfecta patients were analyzed and compared with reports in the literature.  It is concluded that the results described as disappointing were not always the product of the stapes operation.  A progressive sensorineural hearing loss arising independently of the operation as a result of progression in the disease process of osteogenesis imperfecta appears to have a severe influence on the final hearing threshold.
Occult, bilateral anterior sacral and intrasacral meningeal and perineurial cysts: case report and review of the literature.  None of the more than 180 cases of anterior sacral meningocele reported in the past 150 years has been bilateral, and only two have been associated with occult intrasacral meningocele.  We report a unique case of bilateral anterior sacral cysts, communicating with the subarachnoid space, associated with occult intrasacral meningeal and perineurial (Tarlov's) cysts, in an asymptomatic woman.  The pertinent clinical and diagnostic imaging literature is reviewed.
Radiocolloids in the management of hemophilic arthropathy in children and adolescents.  Radiocolloids have been used in the treatment of hemophilic arthropathy.  Fifty-eight joints of 35 patients were injected with 2-5 mCi of yttrium-90 silicate under local anesthesia.  A preinjection arthrogram was performed to ensure correct placement of the needle.  Plaster of paris cast immobilization of the joint was used for three days.  After a mean follow-up period of seven years (range, two to 12 years), 47 joints were pain free, and 13 joints had not experienced another hemorrhagic episode.  The mean hemorrhagic frequency had decreased from four per month to two per year.  The radiation risk was far outweighed by the benefits of the procedure.  Forty-seven of the 58 joints were rated as improved by the patients.  The roentgenographic appearance of the joints had changed little.  Only five complications occurred: three needle-track necroses because of extravasation of the radiocolloid, two severely painful joints immediately after injection, and one massive hemorrhagic episode.  This form of treatment is suggested for hemophiliacs who have failed to respond to intensive physical and hematologic therapy, and for those patients who have inhibitors.
Massive osteolysis of the maxillofacial bones. Report of two cases.  Two cases of massive osteolysis were encountered, one affecting the mandible and the other the maxilla and mandible.  Only 13 cases have been reported so far in the existing literature for massive osteolysis of the mandible.  It is indeed a rare disease.  Our two cases were surgically treated and were clinically and histopathologically assessed.
Intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis: induction of chronic arthritis in rats by cell wall fragments from isolated Eubacterium aerofaciens strains.  The composition of the obligate anaerobic intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) differed from that of healthy subjects (HS).  Total numbers of aerobes as well as anaerobic coccoid rods were found elevated when compared with HS.  Eubacterium species were found in all stool samples of both groups; Bifidobacterium species were present in seven (RA) and eight (HS) out of 10 subjects.  From the flora of two RA patients and two HS Eubacterium species were isolated and identified.  Cell wall fragments from four E.  aerofaciens strains (two from RA, two from HS) were tested for arthritis induction in rats.  All four strains induced chronic arthritis which was histologically confirmed.  We concluded that in the normal intestinal flora of RA patients Eubacterium species are present in high numbers (i.e.  greater than 10(9)/g faeces); cell walls from isolated E.  aerofaciens strains had arthropathic properties.
Recurrent nonsense mutations in the growth hormone receptor from patients with Laron dwarfism.  In addition to its classical effects on growth, growth hormone (GH) has been shown to have a number of other actions, all of which are initiated by an interaction with specific high affinity receptors present in a variety of tissues.  Purification of a rabbit liver protein via its ability to bind GH has allowed the isolation of a cDNA encoding a putative human growth hormone receptor that belongs to a new class of transmembrane receptors.  We have previously shown that this putative growth hormone receptor gene is genetically linked to Laron dwarfism, a rare autosomal recessive syndrome caused by target resistance to GH.  Nevertheless, the inability to express the corresponding full-length coding sequence and the lack of a test for growth-promoting function have hampered a direct confirmation of its role in growth.  We have now identified three nonsense mutations within this growth hormone receptor gene, lying at positions corresponding to the amino terminal extremity and causing a truncation of the molecule, thereby deleting a large portion of both the GH binding domain and the full transmembrane and intracellular domains.  Three independent patients with Laron dwarfism born of consanguineous parents were homozygous for these defects.  Two defects were identical and consisted of a CG to TG transition.  Not only do these results confirm the growth-promoting activity of this receptor but they also suggest that CpG doublets may represent hot spots for mutations in the growth hormone receptor gene that are responsible for hereditary dwarfism.
The pathology of metabolic bone disease.  The skeletal manifestations of the diverse group of metabolic bone diseases are mediated through the altered function of osteoblasts and osteoclasts and abnormal rates of mineralization.  Appropriate understanding of their pathologic conditions requires familiarity with the normal anatomy and physiology of the skeleton.  The accurate identification of metabolic bone disease frequently demands histologic confirmation and sophisticated analysis of undecalcified bone specimens labeled with tetracycline by histomorphometric techniques.  These procedures allow the assessment of many morphologic features that characterize specific disease states.  The most common types of metabolic bone diseases are acquired disorders; nonetheless, rare forms frequently are genetically based and cause intrinsic alterations in the bone-cell populations.
Management of pseudarthrosis after arthrodesis of the spine for idiopathic scoliosis.  Sixty-three first, second, or third-time repairs of one or more pseudarthroses were done in fifty-one patients who had had an arthrodesis for idiopathic scoliosis.  Forty-five of the patients were female and six were male.  The average age was 30.2 years.  The indications for the sixty-three repairs were pain (twenty-five repairs), progression of the curve (sixteen), both pain and progression of the curve (twelve), and radiographic changes only (ten).  Failure of the implant was identified before 27 per cent of the sixty-three procedures.  The pseudarthroses were diagnosed an average of 2.8 years after the initial arthrodeses.  Sixty-eight per cent of the defects were visible on plain radiographs preoperatively and 32 per cent were identified at operation.  During the time between the original arthrodeses and the repairs of the pseudarthroses, the scolioses increased by a mean of 7 degrees and the kyphoses, by a mean of 10 degrees.  Harrington distraction was the most commonly used instrumentation (twenty-six [41 per cent] of the sixty-three procedures), and autogenous iliac bone was the most commonly used material for the graft (thirty-three [52 per cent] of the procedures).
Levels of disability among U.S. adults with arthritis.  This article studies the excess levels of disability experienced by persons with arthritis, compared to persons without the disease.  The data set is the Supplement on Aging (1984 National Health Interview Survey); it has information for a national probability sample of community-dwelling persons ages 55 + (N = 16,148).  (1) Arthritis people have more difficulty in physical functions, personal care, and household care than do nonarthritis persons.  The excess disability is greatest for physical functions (walking, reaching, stooping, etc.).  Disabled arthritis people have especially high degrees of difficulty in physical activities that require endurance and strength.  (2) Various models are tested for walking, grasping, shopping, and light housework to show how comorbidity propels disability for arthritis people and to show arthritis' own contribution to disability in the presence of other chronic conditions.  Difficulties escalate for arthritis people when they have other concurrent conditions.  These models affirm that arthritis has a pronounced effect on physical dysfunctions, but these are not readily translated into personal and household care problems.  Apparently, arthritis people often make successful accommodations so their roles and daily activities are not seriously affected by the disease.
Relapsing polychondritis in pregnancy.  A 25-year-old patient presented at 14 weeks of her 3rd pregnancy with chondritis affecting the cartilaginous portion of her right ear.  The clinical syndrome of recurrent chondritis, scleritis, iritis and arthritis supported a diagnosis of relapsing polychondritis.  Fetal and maternal outcomes were favorable despite steroid dependent active disease during the period of fetal organogenesis.  Chondritis was limited to the 3rd pregnancy, ocular inflammation occurring in the 2nd and 3rd pregnancies.  A 4th pregnancy was uneventful.  This may represent the first case of relapsing polychondritis in pregnancy.
Dental abnormalities associated with familial expansile osteolysis: a clinical and radiographic study.  Familial expansile osteolysis is a rare and possibly unique form of hereditary bone dysplasia with dental manifestations that has affected 42 members of a Northern Ireland family for five generations.  Twenty-seven family members, aged 3 to 60 years, were examined clinically and radiographically, and it was found that cervical and/or apical root resorption is an early manifestation of the dysplasia.  Of the 20 family members with skeletal manifestations of familial expansile osteolysis, 16 showed root resorption.  Root resorption may therefore be a good prognosticator for later bone involvement.
Yersinia enterocolitica in the synovial membrane of patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis.  Using a monospecific rabbit antibody against Yersinia enterocolitica outer membrane protein 1, we examined synovial biopsy specimens from 7 patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis.  Yersinia were demonstrated in the synovial membrane by indirect immunofluorescence in 4 patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis, but not in 6 control patients with Salmonella-induced arthritis or with rheumatoid arthritis.  These findings suggest the persistence of Yersinia in the joints of patients with Yersinia-induced arthritis.
Septic arthritis as a non-surgical complication in rheumatoid arthritis: relation to disease severity and therapy.  More aggressive therapy including cytotoxic drugs is increasingly used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and may confer increased susceptibility to infections.  Septic arthritis is one infectious complication known to be overrepresented in RA.  We studied the impact of disease severity and medication in a group of nine RA patients with proven septic arthritis, excluding those occurring as a complication of orthopaedic surgery.  Two control groups were used for comparison.  The septic arthritis patients were functionally more incapacitated and more often treated with cytotoxic drugs.  Six of the nine septic arthritis patients had received an intra-articular injection into the infected joint within 3 months prior to the onset of the septic arthritis.  Only one of these occurred immediately after arthrocentesis.  The annual frequency of septic arthritis was approximately 0.2%.  During the 4-year period studied the frequency was 0.5%.  When related to the number of glucocorticosteroid injections, a frequency of 1 per 2000 injections was found when late septic arthritis was included.  The high frequency of delayed septic arthritis after intra-articular glucocorticosteroid administration should alert physicians to this complication.
Cyclosporin-A in vitro decreases bone resorption, osteoclast formation, and the fusion of cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage.  We studied the in vitro effect of cyclosporin-A (CyA) on bone resorption using a fetal rat long bone-resorbing assay.  CyA inhibited both PTH-stimulated and unstimulated bone resorption.  The inhibitory effect of CyA on basal resorption was dose dependent, and it was more pronounced during the second period (less than or equal to 0.1 microgram/ml) of culture (days 5-7) than during the first period (days 2-4).  A cytotoxic effect was ruled out by the absence of decrease in [3H]thymidine incorporation into bones up to a concentration of 5 micrograms/ml CyA.  Histomorphometry performed after 4 and 7 days of culture showed that CyA (1 microgram/ml) decreased the number of osteoclasts per bone section after 7 days of culture (23.5 +/- 4.0 vs.  41.7 +/- 2.9 osteoclasts/bone section; P less than 0.05), but not after 4 days (25.6 +/- 3.3 vs.  23.0 +/- 2.5).  These data suggested an effect of CyA on osteoclastic differentiation rather than on the function of mature osteoclasts.  We further assessed the mechanisms of the inhibitory effect of CyA on osteoclastic differentiation in order to determine 1) the level of this action (proliferation and/or fusion of osteoclast precursors), and 2) if this action is direct or indirect.  Autoradiographic studies were performed on bone sections after incubation of bones with [3H]thymidine for the last 48 h of culture.  CyA decreased slightly but significantly the percentage of labeled nuclei per osteoclast and the number of osteoclasts containing at least one labeled nucleus (20.2 +/- 0.7 vs.  33.2 +/- 3.5; P less than 0.02).  Moreover the number of nuclei per osteoclast was decreased after 7 days in CyA-treated bones (2.4 +/- 0.05 vs.  3.0 +/- 0.1; P less than 0.02).  Taken together these results demonstrate that CyA slightly decreased the proliferation of osteoclast precursors, but markedly decreased their fusion.  Similar effects were observed in cultures of rat marrow macrophages.  CyA (1 microgram/ml) inhibited the fusion of macrophages into multinucleated cells elicited by 1 nM 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, but had only a slight effect on the proliferation of these cells, as assessed by autoradiography.  CyA also inhibited the formation of multinucleated cells and the fusion index in long term cultures of human cord blood monocytes, a cellular model for osteoclastic differentiation.  By contrast, CyA had no effect on the formation of myotubes by fusion of cultured mononucleated rat myoblasts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS).
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with L-tryptophan use.  The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of oral preparations of the amino acid L-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989.  We describe the clinical and laboratory manifestations, pathological findings and early clinical course of 20 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Prominent clinical findings included severe myalgias limiting function, fatigue, rashes, edema and weight gain, weight loss, muscle weakness and shortness of breath.  Laboratory findings included eosinophilia (often marked), normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and elevated aldolase with normal or low creatine kinase values.  On biopsy fascial inflammation was always seen consisting of lymphocytes, histiocytes and eosinophils in a perivascular distribution.  Invasion of the vascular wall by lymphocytes was seen in 20%.  Capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening was found in most cases on electron microscopy and endothelial cell necrosis or mural invasion by lymphocytes was seen in 25% of cases.  Two patients improved with no therapy.  Ten patients responded to therapy with prednisone alone.  Three patients have had progressive disease and one of these died.  The relationship of this syndrome to previously described disease entities associated with eosinophilia is discussed.
Postarthroscopy analgesia with bupivacaine. A prospective, randomized, blinded evaluation.  The analgesic effect of intraarticular bupivacaine injected at the conclusion of knee arthroscopy done under general anesthesia was investigated in a prospective, randomized, and blinded fashion.  Pain scores, the use of analgesic medications, crutch use, weight-bearing, activity level, and difficulty sleeping the night after surgery were all unaffected by the use of bupivacaine.  The apparent lack of effect is most likely due to rapid clearance from the knee, leaving only a transient, 1 to 2 hours of potential benefit.  In this study, the patients were already quite comfortable during this time period due to the routine use of intraoperative narcotics.  The preoperative level of knee discomfort was found to be a major determinant of postoperative discomfort.  Other much less important factors were synovial and chondral shaving, sex of the patient, and experience of the surgeon.
Antibody to Coxsackie B virus in diagnosing postviral fatigue syndrome   OBJECTIVE--To study the association between coxsackie B virus infection and the postviral fatigue syndrome and to assess the immunological abnormalities associated with the syndrome.  DESIGN--Case-control study of patients with the postviral fatigue syndrome referred by local general practitioners over one year.  SETTING--General practitioner referrals in Dunbartonshire, Scotland.  PATIENTS--254 Patients referred with the postviral fatigue syndrome (exhaustion, myalgia, and other symptoms referable to postviral fatigue syndrome of fairly recent onset--that is, several months) and age and sex matched controls obtained from same general practitioner; 11 patients were rejected because of wrong diagnoses, resolution of symptoms, and refusal to participate, leaving 243 patients and matched controls.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Detailed questionnaire (patients and controls) and clinical examination (patients) and blind analysis of blood sample at entry and after six months for determination of coxsackie B virus IgM and IgG antibodies and other variables (including lymphocyte protein synthesis, lymphocyte subsets, and immune complexes).  RESULTS--Percentage positive rates for coxsackie B virus IgM at entry were 24.4% for patients and 22.6% for controls and for coxsackie B virus IgG 56.2% and 55.3% respectively; there were no significant differences between different categories of patients according to clinical likelihood of the syndrome nor any predictive value in a fourfold rise or fall in the coxsackie B virus IgG titre in patients between entry and review at six months.  The rates of positive antibody test results in patients and controls showed a strong seasonal variation.  Of the numerous immunological tests performed, only a few detected significant abnormalities; in particular the mean value for immune complex concentration was much higher in 35 patients and 35 controls compared with the normal range and mean value for total IgM was also raised in 227 patients and 35 controls compared with the normal range.  CONCLUSIONS--Serological tests available for detecting coxsackie B virus antibodies do not help diagnose the postviral fatigue syndrome.  Percentage positive rates of the antibodies in patients simply reflect the background in the population as probably do the raised concentrations of total IgM and immune complexes.
A simple technique of posterior wiring in traumatic instability of the mid to lower cervical spine. Technical note.  Wiring without bone fusion in the treatment of traumatic cervical instability is an uncommon procedure.  The authors describe a semirigid wiring technique for stabilizing the acute injured movement segment in the mid and lower cervical spine.  Results are briefly discussed.
The course of biochemical parameters of bone turnover during treatment with corticosteroids.  The mechanisms by which glucocorticoids cause osteopenia are incompletely understood.  It is generally accepted that bone formation is depressed during corticosteroid treatment, but the cause of the ongoing bone resorption is less clear.  Secondary hyperparathyroidism and changes in vitamin D metabolism are thought to play a role.  This is based mostly on data from cross-sectional studies in heterogeneous patient groups.  We, therefore, studied longitudinally the course of biochemical parameters and the hormones influencing bone turnover in a homogeneous group of 10 euthyroid patients with Graves' ophthalmopathy, all euthyroid for at least 1 yr before, during, and after a 12-week course of prednisone.  Bone formation was depressed as reflected by a fall in serum osteocalcin (3.0 +/- 2.1, 1.7 +/- 1.1, and 2.4 +/- 1.9 micrograms/L at weeks 0, 4, and 12, respectively; P = 0.02) and in total alkaline phosphatase (1.15 +/- 0.33, 0.83 +/- 0.22, and 0.88 +/- 0.40 mukat/L; P = 0.001).  Parameters of bone resorption (urinary hydroxyproline/creatinine ratio, serum acid phosphatase) and the levels of vitamin D metabolites remained unchanged.  Serum intact PTH seemed to decrease slightly.  Our findings suggest that glucocorticoid induced osteopenia is caused by a depressed bone formation in the presence of an unaltered but ongoing bone resorption.  Secondary hyperparathyroidism and changes in vitamin D metabolism are apparently not involved.
Long-term results of the Evans procedure for lateral instability of the ankle.  We studied the late outcome of 40 ankles (from a consecutive series of 42) treated by a modified Evans procedure.  The peroneus brevis tendon was used to fashion a static tenodesis.  All the patients had suffered from persistent lateral instability following an ankle sprain.  The follow-up period was between nine and 12 years.  Excellent or good results were achieved in 33 ankles (82.5%), three had a fair result, and four were poor.  The clinical results were matched by the radiographic results which showed significant talar tilt or anterior talar translation in only three ankles.  The functional result showed no positive correlation with the stress-radiographic analysis.  We concluded that this modification of the Evans operation gives satisfactory long-term results, which show little change from the good results at 24 to 35 months reported in an earlier paper from our department.
Histochemical localization of calcium with potassium pyroantimonate in the articular tissues in calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease.  The ultrastructural localization of calcium in the articular cartilage, meniscus, and synovium of patients with calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystal deposition disease was examined by using potassium pyroantimonate.  Focal areas with deposition of CPPD crystals in each tissue showed electron-dense precipitates of the antimony-calcium complex: (1) in the cytoplasm of hypertrophic chondrocytes around CPPD crystals, especially on the margins of intracellular lipid droplets or within electron-dense amorphous material or both; and (2) on the margins of lipid droplets and within electron-dense amorphous material in the degenerated matrix surrounding the hypertrophic chondrocytes.  The slender rodlike structures consisting of electron-dense precipitates of the antimony-calcium complex, suggestive of the precursor to rodlike CPPD crystals, were also observed in the degenerated matrix.  These findings suggest that the hypertrophic chondrocytes may contribute to the formation of CPPD crystals by intracellular accumulation of calcium and subsequent release of high concentration of calcium into their surrounding matrix.
L-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states.  The eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid L-tryptophan.  We describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental L-tryptophan.  Exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints, and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the L-tryptophan supplements.  The mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed.
Disorders of calcium and phosphorus homeostasis.  Calcium and phosphorus are, respectively, the fifth and sixth most abundant elements in the body; both play vital roles in a multitude of physiologic systems.  Because the great bulk of these elements is found in the skeleton, a large part of the discussion of calcium and phosphorus metabolism focuses on skeletal disorders, the impact of which falls heavily on young children.  This article reviews the physiology of calcium and phosphorus, the skeletal and systemic consequences of disorders of vitamin D nutrition and metabolism, and the metabolic bone disease of prematurity.
Autograft versus allograft for benign lesions in children.  Benign bone lesions in children are often so large in size that there is not an adequate amount of bone available for an autograft to fill the resultant cavity after surgical curettage.  This study compared autografts and allografts with respect to the time required and the success of graft incorporation.  Fifty-four patients with 61 lesions were studied.  Lesions were classified as small volume (less than 60 cc) or large volume (more than 60 cc) and were separated into four groups: small-volume autograft, large-volume autograft, small-volume allograft, and large-volume allograft.  Allografts appeared comparable to autografts when small-volume lesions were treated.  The healing time was slightly longer for allografts with an average period of 21 months versus 27 months for autografts.  Autografts were superior to allografts in rate and completeness of healing for solitary large lesions.  This increased efficacy presumes a somewhat older child in which an adequate amount of bone is available for an autograft.  A young child with multicentric or polyostotic lesions can still achieve successful incorporation with allografts.  In this study, 38% healed completely and 29% healed partially.  Allografts have a distinct place in the treatment of benign bone lesions in children.
Chondrosarcomas of the synovium.  Chondrosarcoma of the synovium, either primary or secondary to synovial chondromatosis, is rare.  Ten cases of synovial chondrosarcoma were studied (four from the Mayo Clinic files and six from the authors' consultation files).  Two were considered primary.  In five cases there was evidence of preexisting synovial chondromatosis, and in the remaining three, there was a suggestion of preexisting disease.  Several histologic features were found that were helpful to diagnose malignancy.  The most important ones were loss of the "clustering" growth pattern typical of synovial chondromatosis, myxoid change in the matrix, areas of necrosis, and spindling at the periphery of chondroid lobules.  Pulmonary metastasis developed in five of nine patients; three of these patients died.
Ichthyosis, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, impaired neutrophil chemotaxis, growth retardation, and metaphyseal dysplasia (Shwachman syndrome). Report of a case with extensive skin lesions (clinical, histological, and ultrastructural findings).  The Shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, growth retardation, and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia.  Clinical, morphological, and ultrastructural studies, as well as hair analysis, were performed in a patient with Shwachman's syndrome and severe ichthyosis.  Clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities.  The hair was scanty and short on the scalp, in the eyelashes, and in the eyebrows.  The nails were hyperkeratotic.  Morphologic findings were slight, regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis.  The granular layer was thickened.  The papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration.  The most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes.  Hair analysis revealed no abnormalities; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal.
Metabolic bone disease. Morphometry.  The history of the development of radiologic morphometric techniques is traced, emphasizing their pathophysiologic background and relevance to possible therapies.  The techniques are described and longitudinal and comparative studies assessed.  Technical limitations of the various methods are presented.
The use of fibrin sealant to reduce blood loss during Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis.  The increased complexity of Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation has, as an unexpected side effect, a potential increase in blood loss.  A prospective randomized study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that application of a fibrin sealant to exposed cancellous bone can significantly reduce blood loss during Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis.  A significant difference was demonstrated in total body loss, loss per level fused, and loss per kilogram of body weight when comparing the sealant group with random controls.  A significant difference was demonstrated in loss per level fused when comparing the sealant control with a historical control group.  Thirty-three patients were randomly assigned to the fibrin sealant or nonsealant groups; another 10 patients operated on before planning the study were included as historical controls.  The sealant was used to control bleeding at the bone graft donor site and in the spine after decortication.  All patients underwent Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis.  There were no significant differences between groups with respect to degree of curvature, number of levels fused, age or weight of patient, or operating time.  Total blood loss in the sealant group averaged 672 ml compared with 894 ml in the sealant control group.  No patient in the sealant group required homologous blood.  Given the increasing awareness of the complications of blood transfusion, the authors conclude that fibrin sealant is a useful adjunct to spinal surgical technique.
The "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome.  A patient developed isolated numbness, 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip, but later involving the cheek, lower lip, upper gingiva, and the palate.  This numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop (the "numb cheek-limp lower lid" syndrome).  Squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve.  Cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches.
Surgical approaches in osteomyelitis. Use of laser Doppler flowmetry to determine nonviable bone.  The surgical management of osteomyelitis includes radical debridement on nonviable bone.  Laser Doppler flowmetry is a method for directly assessing the functional microcirculation in bone.  The early results of the use of this technique as a surgical adjunct in the management of osteomyelitis are promising.
Familial predisposition for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old.  The parents of sixty-three patients who were less than twenty-one years old and who had operatively confirmed herniation of a lumbar disc were interviewed regarding a history of sever back pain, sciatica, and herniated disc, to determine whether aggregation of herniation of a lumbar disc occurs in families of patients in this young age-group.  The parents of sixty-three additional patients who had a non-spinal orthopaedic diagnosis (control group) were matched for age and sex with the study group and were given the same interview.  Of the patients who had herniation of a lumbar disc and were less than twenty-one years old, 32 per cent had a positive family history for that lesion compared with 7 per cent of the control group.  The relative risk of development of herniation of a lumbar disc before the age of twenty-one years is estimated to be approximately five times greater in patients who have a positive family history.  The results indicate a familial basis for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old.
The Le Fort III advancement osteotomy in the child under 7 years of age.  This is a longitudinal study of 12 patients with craniofacial synostosis syndromes (Crouzon's, Apert's, Pfeiffer's) who underwent Le Fort III advancement under the age of 7 years (average age 5.1 years, range 4.0 to 6.7 years).  The average follow-up was 5.0 years and included clinical, dental, and cephalometric examinations according to a prescribed protocol.  The study demonstrated that the procedure could be safely performed in the younger child with an acceptable level of morbidity.  There was a remarkable degree of postoperative stability of the maxillary segment.  However, although vertical (inferior) growth or movement of the midfacial segment was demonstrated, there was minimal, if any, anterior or horizontal growth.  Any occlusal disharmony developing during the period of follow-up could be attributed to anticipated mandibular development and could be corrected by orthognathic surgery.  The roles of surgical overcorrection and anterior-pull headgear therapy after release of intermaxillary fixation are also discussed.  The Le Fort III osteotomy is justifiably indicated during early childhood for psychological and physiologic reasons.
Delayed anterior decompression in patients with spinal cord and cauda equina injuries of the thoracolumbar spine.  Forty-nine patients with complete and incomplete injuries of the spinal cord or cauda equina who had undergone anterior decompression at a minimum of 3 months after injury were examined.  Follow-up was from 12 months to 19 years.  Postoperative neurologic improvement occurred in 46.5% of patients with incomplete injuries.  If the surgery was performed less than 2 years after injury, neurologic improvement occurred in 68% with an improvement in Frankel grade of 32%.  Bladder function improved in 27% of patients and if operated on less than 2 years after injury improvement occurred in 43%.  Conus medullaris decompression resulted in a 50% improvement.  There was an 83% improvement in the pattern of pain after decompression.  Of 23 patients with preoperative spasticity, 10 improved but 6 were worse after surgery.
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of L-tryptophan: muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients.  Muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of L-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas.  There was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients.  In the 2 sickest patients, there was profound muscle atrophy, affecting both muscle fiber types.
Recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel.  Recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel is reported in two patients.  This was due to traumatic attenuation of the flexor carpi ulnaris retinaculum.  The mechanism of injury in both patients was a fall with the shoulder abducted and the elbow acutely flexed.  Both patients had relief of their neurologic symptoms following anterior submuscular transposition of the ulnar nerve.
Spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer.  Fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to Hope Hospital, none being judged to be in a terminal condition.  One patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief.  There were three failures.  Twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation.  Of these, 20 had major recovery of neurological function.  Patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had 'prophylactic' decompression at the time of stabilisation; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression.  The results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation.  Postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible, and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy, as indicated.
Application of the polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence techniques to the detection of bacteria in Yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis.  Leukocytes in synovial fluid and peripheral blood samples from patients with Yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis were analyzed after DNA amplification using the polymerase chain reaction.  The primers applied were specific for the virulence plasmid-coded 1crE genes of Yersinia enterocolitica O:3 and Yersinia pseudotuberculosis III.  No Yersinia DNA was observed within the synovial fluid cells or peripheral blood cells by polymerase chain reaction techniques.  However, Yersinia antigens were detected in the synovial fluid cells by immunofluorescence techniques.  These results suggest that only parts of the causative agents, not the entire microbe, can enter the joint and initiate the inflammation that leads to a reactive arthritis.
Temporal bone: three-dimensional CT. Part II. Pathologic alterations.  Three-dimensional (3D) surface renderings were obtained from routine axial computed tomographic (CT) images in 15 patients with a variety of complex temporal bone abnormalities.  The 3D CT reformations served as an adjunct to conventional sectional CT examination.  While no diagnosis was substantially changed because of the 3D CT images, they did provide a more global perspective in cases of large tumors and fractures and at the postmastoidectomy site.  Three-dimensional CT surface reformations are now practical and may be potentially useful for visualizing temporal bone lesions characterized by complex destructive change.
Postanginal sepsis with dysphagia.  We have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis.  Streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy, and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis.  The patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics.
Rickets and osteomalacia are still around.  The terms rickets and osteomalacia describe gross, histologic, and radiologic abnormalities common to more than 50 diseases that vary in cause and clinical presentation.  Rachitic and osteomalacic syndromes seen in current clinical practice usually are resistant to vitamin D forms and are most often caused by phosphate loss or 1,25(OH)2D deficiency, or both.  Radiographic identification of rachitic or osteomalacic syndromes and accurate diagnosis of a particular cause is essential, as many patients' conditions can be improved or cured with proper therapy.
Identification of osteoclast precursors in multilineage hemopoietic colonies.  The osteoclast is known to be derived from the hemopoietic stem cell, but its lineage and the mechanisms by which its differentiation is regulated are largely unknown.  There is evidence that osteoclastic differentiation is induced through a contact-dependent interaction between bone marrow stromal cells and hemopoietic precursors.  To analyze osteoclastic lineage, colonies were generated in semi-solid medium from mouse spleen cells in the presence of erythropoietin with either Wehi 3B-conditioned medium or interleukin 3 (IL3).  After 7 days, individual colonies were picked.  Half of each colony was phenotyped by the morphology of cells in cytospin preparations; the second half of each was incubated for 7 days with a bone marrow-derived cell line (ts8) that induces osteoclastic differentiation from hemopoietic cells, on bone slices in the presence of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.  After incubation, bone resorption was assessed by scanning electron microscopy.  No resorption was induced in cells derived from single-lineage colonies, but resorptive cells differentiated in 17% of granulocyte-macrophage (GM) colonies and 38% of multilineage colonies.  Since only a minority of GM colonies contained osteoclastic precursors, this suggests that the GM colonies that contained osteoclasts were not typical GM colonies but may have been a form of multilineage colony analagous to other multilineage colonies that contain granulocytes, macrophages, and a third cell type.  No resorptive cells were formed when IL3-derived colonies were incubated on bone slices without ts8 cells.  The results suggest that osteoclasts are derived from a multilineage precursor, upon which IL3 acts to generate cells capable of osteoclastic differentiation, which form resorptive cells upon incubation with bone marrow stromal cells in the presence of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with L-tryptophan ingestion.  The association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and L-tryptophan is now well established.  We describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids.  When massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy, surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness.  A discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented.
Results of treatment of idiopathic scoliosis with the Charleston bending orthosis.  The authors present a preliminary retrospective review of the treatment of 32 patients with idiopathic scoliosis with the Charleston bending thoracolumbosacral orthosis (TLSO), a new, low-profile spinal orthosis.  At the onset of treatment, the patients' mean age was 12.5 years and the mean Risser stage was 0.4.  Females achieved menarche at an mean of 1.8 months after starting orthotic treatment.  Single structural curves were treated in all patients.  At this time, 2 patients have failed treatment, their curves progressing 12 degrees and 8 degrees, respectively.  An additional 11 patients have successfully completed treatment, having reached skeletal maturity with no more than 5 degrees of curve progression.  Their mean curve change was a 2.2 degrees decrease.  The other 19 patients remain under treatment.  The Charleston bending TLSO is worn only during nighttime sleeping hours.  It is well tolerated, with excellent patient compliance and low psychological stress, and it may be as successful at curve control as other orthoses.  Experience with more patients and longer follow-up is needed.
Osteomalacia in hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria: a correlative clinical-histomorphometric study.  We characterized the bone disease of transilial biopsy specimens from children with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria (HHRH) and genetically related asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects.  All HHRH patients showed irregular mineralization fronts, markedly elevated osteoid surface and seam width, increased number of osteoid lamellae, and prolonged mineralization lag time.  These findings are consistent with a mineralization defect and indicate unambiguously that the bone disease in HHRH is osteomalacia.  The only abnormality seen in the asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects was slightly extended osteoid surface.  Parametric and nonparametric statistical analyses performed on a pooled sample of HHRH patients and asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects revealed a very high inverse correlation and a tight linear relationship between serum phosphorus and osteoid parameters.  Serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, which is low in other forms of hereditary hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia, is elevated in HHRH and correlated positively with osteoid parameters and the mineralization lag time.  Serum alkaline phosphatase showed similar relationships.  These results as well as the clinical, biochemical, and radiological remission of bone disease consequent to phosphate therapy strongly suggest that in HHRH 1) hypophosphatemia alone is sufficient to cause osteomalacia; and 2) the elevation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D reflects the degree of the primary renal phosphate leak, but is not involved in the pathogenesis of the bone disease.
The role of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles in glenohumeral kinematics of anterior should instability.  To investigate a socket mechanism responsible for controlling the kinematics in the statically positioned glenohumeral joint, a suprascapular nerve block was performed in 13 selected patients, with recurrent anterior instability and defects of the labrum.  Kinematics were then documented by roentgenograms in four positions within the horizontal motion plane.  Combined paralysis of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles resulted in abnormal anterior translation in only two of 47 roentgenograms.  Normal ball-and-socket kinematics were retained in the remaining 45 roentgenograms.  The consistent arthroscopic findings were an undamaged glenoid articular surface with a detached or absent labrum.  The injury to the labrum reduced the depth of the socket by one-half.  The other one-half of the socket provided by the contour of the glenoid remained intact.  A balanced muscle envelope was not required to maintain normal kinematics in selected, actively positioned, unstable shoulders.  The retained glenoid depth was sufficient to produce the observed ball-and-socket kinematics.  Further in vivo study of shoulder kinematics will be needed to clarify the interactive roles of the socket and muscle envelope in maintaining glenohumeral stability during the more demanding stresses during active shoulder motion.
Eosinophilic myositis an expression of L-tryptophan toxicity?  Eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome possibly due to L-tryptophan is a new clinical entity that has been recently reported.  We describe the clinical presentation of eosinophilia, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, myalgia, and eosinophilic myositis, that led to respiratory failure in a young man taking an L-tryptophan containing compound.
Triple bone labeling of canine mandibles.  Fluorescence microscopy was used for evaluation of new bone formation in 16 canine mandibles augmented with hydroxylapatite (HA) granules.  Three fluorochromes were injected at different time intervals during therapeutic radiation treatment.  Oxytetracycline, DCAF, and alizarin-complexone were given intravenously to mark the bone level at these times, respectively.  Oxytetracycline, which defined the baseline of bone at implantation of HA, was detectable in 42% of animals that were irradiated and in no animal of the nonirradiated control group.  The marker DCAF, designating levels of bone at the start of radiation, was demonstrated in 92% of irradiated animals, and in 75% of animals in the control group.  The uptake of alizarin-complexone determined the level of bone found at the end of irradiation.  This marker was demonstrated in 50% of the dogs irradiated and in 75% of the control dogs.  Bony trabeculae were found between and at the surface of the HA granules.  New generation of bone directly on the HA granule and in the surrounding haversian systems as part of normal bone turnover was demonstrated to take place more than 5 months after implantation of HA.
Effects of radiation therapy on skeletal growth in childhood.  Ionizing radiation was used to treat childhood cancer long before the advent of chemotherapy, and it took little time for physicians to appreciate the deleterious effects it had on skeletal growth.  The cause of this complication results predominantly from alteration of chondroblastic activity.  This may stem directly from irradiation at the epiphyseal plate or indirectly from irradiation of glands that secrete growth-mediating hormones.  The complication can go far beyond the obvious physical afflictions and extend into the psychologic domain, rendering deeper, more permanent scars.  Presently, many of these effects are predictable, reducible, and treatable without compromising the cure that so often depends on the use of irradiation.  Because of the complexities of childhood cancer therapy, strategies aimed at diminishing these effects are challenging.  It is imperative that these effects be understood so that they can be reduced in current patients and prevented in future patients.
Magnetic resonance imaging in the preoperative evaluation of cervical radiculopathy.  Forty patients with cervical radiculopathy were examined preoperatively with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).  MRI was used alone in 27 (68%) of the 40 patients; the remainder also had computed tomography in conjunction with myelography.  The primary criterion on MRI for a clinically significant lesion was asymmetrical narrowing of the subarachnoid space in the region of the nerve root.  Surgical confirmation of the abnormality was obtained in all 40 cases.  The operative findings were a herniated nucleus pulposus (32 of 40 patients), spondylosis (2 of 40 patients), or a combination of the two (6 of 40 patients).  MRI identified a surgical lesion (herniated nucleus pulposus, spondylosis, or both) in 37 of the 40 (92%) patients.  We think MRI is the only preoperative imaging examination necessary in most cases of cervical radiculopathy.
Serum levels of bone Gla-protein in inhabitants exposed to environmental cadmium.  Serum levels of bone Gla-protein (BGP)--the vitamin K-dependent CA2(+)-binding protein--were evaluated in 76 cadmium (Cd)-exposed subjects with renal tubular dysfunction (32 men, 44 women) and 133 nonexposed subjects (53 men, 80 women).  Serum BGP levels were higher in the Cd-exposed subjects than in nonexposed subjects.  Significant correlations between BGP and each index measured by bone microdensitometry (MD), serum alkaline phosphatase activity, and Cd in blood and urine were found.  For all of the Cd-exposed and nonexposed men and women, BGP showed a significant standard partial regression coefficient (multiple regression analysis) with the metacarpal index (MCI), which was one of the MD indicators.  Bone Gla-protein also correlated significantly with urinary beta 2-microglobulin in the men and with serum creatinine in the women.  Serum BGP values strongly reflect the degree of bone damage and also reflect, although less strongly, the degree of renal damage induced by exposure to Cd.
Progressive osseous destruction as a complication of HIV-periodontitis.  A pathologic condition is described, characterized by rampant necrosis of gingival mucosa, periodontium, and related osseous structures associated with systemic infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).  It is believed that this condition is an extension beyond the normal clinical course of HIV-periodontitis (HIV-P) and manifests itself in three progressive stages: (1) HIV-associated gingivitis, (2) HIV-P, and (3) an extension of HIV-P to osseous necrosis.  Two cases of osseous destruction attending HIV-P are reported, one of which led to initial diagnosis of HIV infection.  They represent the final stage of disease progression with localized necrosis of gingiva, periodontium, and alveolar bone.
Tests for posterolateral instability of the knee in normal subjects. Results of examination under anesthesia.  An apparently normal knee was examined in each of 100 subjects while they were under general or epidural anesthesia for an unrelated operation.  The Lachman, anterior drawer, posterior drawer, and pivot-shift tests were negative in all knees.  All knees were stable to varus and valgus stress at both 0 and 30 degrees of flexion.  The external-rotation recurvatum test also was negative in all knees.  A positive reversed pivot-shift sign was present in 35 per cent of the knees, suggesting that it may not signify abnormality, at least not without a negative test on the contralateral knee.  The results of the posterolateral drawer test were variable, difficult to quantify, and did not always have a firm end-point.  The amount of maximum external rotation of the tibia, measured from the reference line of the medial border of the foot, was extremely variable at both 30 and 90 degrees of flexion of the knee.  External rotation, as determined by this reference, was slightly greater (averaging 9 degrees) at 90 than at 30 degrees of flexion.  The normal range of maximum external rotation of the foot was 10 to 45 degrees at 30 degrees of flexion of the knee and 15 to 70 degrees at 90 degrees of flexion.  The presence of a large angle of external rotation and a positive reversed pivot-shift sign correlated strongly with increased ligamentous laxity and mild varus alignment of the knee.
Pre-trigeminal neuralgia.  Eighteen patients who subsequently developed typical trigeminal neuralgia experienced a prodromal pain termed "pre-trigeminal neuralgia." These patients described their prodromal pain as a toothache or sinusitis-like pain lasting up to several hours, sometimes triggered by jaw movements or by drinking hot or cold liquids.  Typical trigeminal neuralgia developed a few days to 12 years later, and in all cases affected the same division of the trigeminal nerve.  Six additional patients experiencing what appeared to be pre-trigeminal neuralgia became pain-free when taking carbamazepine or baclofen.  Recognition of pretrigeminal neuralgia makes it possible to relieve the pain with appropriate medications and avoid unnecessary irreversible dental procedures.
Topical treatment of necrotic foot ulcers in diabetic patients: a comparative trial of DuoDerm and MeZinc.  An open randomized controlled study was carried out of 44 diabetic patients with necrotic foot ulcers treated with adhesive zinc oxide tape (MeZinc) or with an adhesive occlusive hydrocolloid dressing (DuoDerm).  Fourteen of the 21 patients treated with MeZinc had their necrotic ulcers improved by at least 50% compared to six out of 21 with the hydrocolloid dressing (P less than 0.025).  Fifteen patients showed an increase in the area of necrosis during the course of the 5-week study and of these, 10 had been treated with the hydrocolloid dressing.
Estrogen and progestin therapy to prevent osteoporosis: attitudes and practices of general internists and gynecologists.  STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess combined hormone therapy (CHT) prescribing patterns, possible impediments to CHT prescribing, and use of endometrial biopsy to monitor therapy.  DESIGN: Mailed questionnaire survey.  SUBJECTS: Gynecologists and general internists at two Boston teaching hospitals.  MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Based on a 71% response rate, 72% of internists and 100% of gynecologists reported ever having prescribed CHT.  Almost 60% of internists, compared with 8% of gynecologists, reported that over half of their female patients were older than 50 years of age.  By logistic regression analysis of the internists' data, female gender of physician (odds ratio 11.0), belief that CHT decreases myocardial infarction risk (odds ratio 3.4), and knowledge of CHT's benefits and risks (odds ratio 2.8) were associated with prescribing.  Endometrial biopsy was performed by a majority of physicians only when unexpected vaginal bleeding occurred and in cases of unclear menopausal transition.  Physicians who were concerned about litigation were seven times more likely to perform baseline endometrial biopsy.  CONCLUSIONS: In the authors' sample, as well as nationally, internists are more likely to provide care for menopausal women.  Among internists, gender and knowledge are strongly associated with CHT prescribing.  These findings have important educational implications if internists are to routinely provide information and counseling to women about osteoporosis and CHT.
Inherited diseases of bone density in children.  In this article the radiographic manifestations of various genetic diseases predominately affecting bone mineralization are considered.  Osteogenesis imperfecta and other diseases of diffuse osteopenia, hereditary rickets and rachiticlike conditions, and osteopetrosis and other diseases of increased bone density are emphasized.  Recognition of the radiographic manifestations allows accurate diagnosis, therapeutic intervention when possible, and determination of recurrence risk for genetic counseling.
The relationship of complement-mediated microvasculopathy to the histologic features and clinical duration of disease in dermatomyositis   Accumulating evidence indicates that a complement-mediated microvasculopathy may play a pathogenic role in dermatomyositis.  In a previous study, we demonstrated neoantigens of the C5b-9 complement membrane attack complex in the muscle microvasculature of childhood and adult cases of dermatomyositis.  To further characterize the relationship between the vascular complement deposits and histologic changes, quantitative histopathologic analyses were performed on 39 dermatomyositis biopsy specimens (26 adult, 13 children).  There was a significant correlation between the percentage of fascicles with fibers having focal myofibrillar loss, a change seen early in the evolution of ischemic muscle fiber damage, and the percentage of fascicles having capillary deposits of membrane attack complex.  Conversely, in biopsy specimens with a higher percentage of fascicles with perifascicular atrophy, membrane attack complex deposits were significantly less common.  A fascicle-by-fascicle analysis supported these observations.  Patients whose biopsy specimens were negative for microvascular membrane attack complex had clinical weakness for a significantly longer time than those patients with vascular complement deposits.  These data support the hypothesis that the complement-mediated vasculopathy is a primary immunopathogenic event in the evolution of muscle lesions in dermatomyositis.
Apolipoprotein (apo) E inhibits the capacity of monosodium urate crystals to stimulate neutrophils. Characterization of intraarticular apo E and demonstration of apo E binding to urate crystals in vivo.  Factors that modulate the ability of monosodium urate crystals to stimulate leukocytes could regulate gouty inflammation.  Lipoproteins that bear apo B-100 and apo E bind to urate crystals and suppress crystal-neutrophil interaction.  In this study, we observed that urate crystals, coated with apo E of monocyte origin, had a diminished ability to stimulate neutrophils.  Apo E was also detected on the surface of urate crystals recovered from gout patients.  Thus, we analyzed apo E in noninflammatory synovial fluid, and found it to be associated with particles of heterogeneous size and of predominantly alpha and pre-beta electrophoretic mobility.  Local articular synthesis of at least a portion of synovial fluid apo E was suggested because (a) the synovial fluid/plasma concentration ratio of apo E was significantly higher than that for both apo B and apo A-I, which are not widely synthesized by extrahepatic tissues, (b) cultured rheumatoid synovial cells in first passage secreted apo E, (c) a portion of synovial fluid apo E was heavily sialylated.  We conclude that synovial fluids contain apo E that appears partly of local origin.  Apo E binds to urate crystals and could modulate gouty inflammation.
Septic arthritis due to group C streptococcus: report and review of the literature.  A case of polyarticular septic arthritis due to Lancefield group C streptococcus is described and the clinical details of 9 reported cases of septic arthritis due to group C streptococcus reviewed.  Several features of the presentation and course of these patients, including polyarticular involvement (4/10), bacteremia (5/10), clinically important dysfunction in other systems (4/10 patients: cardiac, 3; CNS, 2; pneumonia, 1; gastrointestinal, 1), fatal outcome (3/10 patients, 2 during the course of active infection) and poor functional outcome in affected joints (4/7 surviving patients), serve to place group C streptococcus septic arthritis as a syndrome distinct from that usually expected with streptococcal septic arthritis.  Specific features of the bacteriology of group C streptococcus are reviewed (including confusion with group A streptococcus when analyzed using nonserologic methods, occasional zoonotic source, and frequency of tolerance to penicillin) in order to emphasize the importance of both the specific identification of this particular streptococcal strain and the initiation of aggressive antibiotic therapy when group C streptococcus is identified as the causative agent in a case of septic arthritis.
Osteoporosis. Current techniques and recent developments in quantitative bone densitometry.  Knowledge about the proper use and interpretation of bone densitometry studies and an understanding of appropriate medical interventions are not universal among physicians, nor are instrumentation and technical performance of bone density studies of uniformly high quality.  Indeed, this deficiency of medical and technical expertise is the principal deterrent to widespread implementation of our recommended clinical applications at this time.  Nonetheless, given the current impetus to disseminate information about osteoporosis, to make newer instrumentation more readily available, and to limit the cost of these techniques, we anticipate that our recommendations may soon become standard medical practice.
Clinical study on stability of combined distraction and compression rod instrumentation with posterolateral fusion for unstable degenerative spondylolisthesis.  The authors examined the stability of combined distraction and compression rod instrumentation with posterolateral fusion in 40 consecutive patients with unstable degenerative spondylolisthesis.  All operations were performed by floating fusion of L3-4 or L4-5 after decompression procedures.  Mobility at the fused level was checked every 4 weeks after operation by the disc space angle on the functional radiographic films without brace.  The average period of postoperative follow-up was 26 months.  In 30 patients, no mobility was found at any time.  In six patients, any mobility disappeared within 24 weeks, and in three patients, within 1 year.  Pseudoarthrosis was found in one patient.  The solid fusion rate was 97.5%.  The values of percent slippage and slip angle were slightly improved.  Lumbar lordosis was in the normal range at follow-up.
Influence of bone mineral density on the fixation of thoracolumbar implants. A comparative study of transpedicular screws, laminar hooks, and spinous process wires.  Posteriorly directed load to failure testing of four different types of spinal implants was performed in individual T5 to S1 vertebra harvested from seven fresh-frozen human cadaveric spines.  The implants tested were: 1) Drummond spinous process wires, 2) Harrington laminar hooks, 3) Cotrel-Dubousset transpedicular screws, and 4) Steffee VSP transpedicular screws.  The ultimate failure of each implant was compared with the bone mineral density of each vertebra to determine which implants, if any, were particularly advantageous in osteoporotic vertebrae.  Before biomechanical testing, the spines were analyzed in vitro by dual photon absorptiometry to determine the bone mineral densities (gm/cm2) of each vertebra.  The mean tensile loads to failure for each of the implants tested were as follows: Cotrel-Dubousset transpedicular screws: 345 Newtons; spinous process wire/button: 382 Newtons; Steffee transpedicular screws: 430 Newtons; and laminar hooks: 646 Newtons.  The difference between the loads to failure for laminar hooks and the other implants was significant (P less than 0.05) using one-way analysis of variance.  The overall correlation coefficient for bone mineral density with ultimate load to failure was 0.30 (P less than 0.001).  The correlation coefficients were 0.47 (P less than 0.001) for spinous process wires alone; 0.096 (not significant) for laminar hooks alone; 0.37 (P less than 0.001) for Cotrel-Dubousset pedicle screws; and 0.48 (P less than 0.001) for Steffee pedicle screws.  Of the four different implants tested, laminar hooks were most resistant to failure from posteriorly directed forces.
Acute osteomyelitis in children.  Although relatively uncommon, osteomyelitis is an important disease because of the potential for chronicity or permanent sequelae.  Diagnostic methods, the spectrum of the disease, and clinical situations that merit special consideration are reviewed in this article.
Natural and recombinant human IL-1 receptor antagonists block the effects of IL-1 on bone resorption and prostaglandin production.  Inhibitory factors towards IL-1 have been identified in the urine and in the supernatants of human monocyte cultures and have been shown to act as receptor antagonists.  We have investigated whether a natural inhibitor purified from human urine (uIL-1ra) and a recombinant molecule expressed using the gene for an IL-1 antagonist isolated from monocytes (rIL-1ra) can alter responses to human rIL-1 alpha in organ cultures of fetal rat long bones and neonatal mouse calvariae.  The two preparations probably contained similar or identical molecules, because an antibody to rIL-1ra reacted with uIL-1ra by Western blot analysis.  uIL-1ra and rIL-1ra specifically blocked stimulation of bone resorption by rIL-1 in both culture systems, as well as the increase in PGE2 production in cultured calvariae.  Resorptive effects of parathyroid hormone and TNF-alpha were not blocked.  The uIL-1ra preparation had some intrinsic resorbing activity, but on gel chromatography this appeared in fractions that eluted earlier than uIL-1ra.  Concentration ratios of rIL-1ra to rIL-1 as low as 10 could block the resorptive response of fetal rat long bones, whereas concentration ratios of 100 to 1000 were required to block IL-1 action on neonatal mouse calvariae.  The inhibitory effects appeared to be competitive, because increasing concentrations of IL-1 overcame the block of bone resorption in both systems and the inhibition of PGE2 production in calvariae.
Chronic musculoskeletal pain and depressive symptoms in the general population. An analysis of the 1st National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data.  Chronic pain and depression frequently occur together.  A selection bias afflicts all hospital clinic and family practice populations in which this relationship has been examined.  We report here some of the results from civilian populations outside institutions, examined in the United States in national surveys.  The findings are based upon the recollection of individuals with respect to the period of 12 months prior to interview and upon the occurrence of depression in the previous week as indicated by the answers to the Depression Scale of the Centre for Epidemiologic Studies (CES-D).  They indicate that 14.4% of the United States population between the ages of 25-74 suffer from definite chronic pain related to the joints and musculoskeletal system.  Another 7.4% have some pain of uncertain duration.  Eighty-three percent of the definite pain group received treatment.  Chronic pain subjects scored significantly higher than normals on the CES-D (10.68 +/- S.E.M.  0.76 vs.  8.05 +/- 0.23, P less than 0.01) with subjects with pain of uncertain duration scoring similar to the definite chronic pain population (11.13 +/- 0.76).  Using a high cut-off score for depression.  18% of the population with chronic pain were found to have depression.  This is in contrast to 8% of the population who did not have chronic pain.
Down-regulation of adoptive adjuvant-induced arthritis by suppressor factor(s).  We recently described a method for inducing immunologic tolerance to trinitrochlorobenzene (TNCB), a hapten that generates suppressor cells capable of down-regulating the efferent phase of TNP-specific contact hypersensitivity in rats.  Peritoneal exudate cells (PEC) of such tolerized rats, upon being triggered by specific hapten, suppressed contact hypersensitivity to another hapten elicited at the same time.  This implied that cells that mediate delayed-type hypersensitivity of any specificity might be down-regulated, provided that the suppressor cells are activated with specific antigen and that the unrelated delayed-type hypersensitivity is elicited in parallel.  To rigorously test this possibility, we examined the ability of TNP-specific suppressor lymphoid cell factors to affect cells that mediate adoptively transferable adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) in rats.  To induce arthritis, spleen cells from Freund's complete adjuvant-injected rats were stimulated with concanavalin A and administered to naive recipients.  Prior to adoptive transfer, the cells were exposed for brief intervals to supernatants of lymphoid cells from control and hapten-tolerized rats.  Supernatants of PEC and lymph node cells from hapten-tolerized rats were found to markedly reduce the effectiveness of cells that mediate AIA.  The hapten-tolerized cells required reexposure to hapten prior to preparation of the supernatants.  Supernatants of spleen cells from hapten-tolerized rats that had been hapten-painted as well as hapten-triggered and supernatants of lymph node cells and of PEC from only hapten-painted or hapten-triggered rats were ineffective in altering the AIA.  Thus, factors from suppressor cells induced toward hapten-coupled self-antigens have been found to adversely affect the function of lymphoid cells that mediate a totally unrelated inflammatory response, namely, AIA.  The clinical implications of these findings are discussed.
Peripheral giant cell granuloma: evidence for osteoclastic differentiation.  Nine cases of peripheral giant cell granuloma of the oral cavity have been immunohistochemically analyzed to assess the nature of the giant cells.  Giant cells were unreactive when tested with antibodies recognizing myelomonocytic and macrophage markers (lysozyme, MAC 387, HAM 56) but showed strong immunoreactivity with MB1, an antibody reactive with osteoclasts.  It is concluded that giant cells characterizing giant cell granuloma exhibit a phenotype distinct from other giant cells found in sites of chronic inflammation and may be true osteoclasts.
Nighttime bracing for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis with the Charleston bending brace. Preliminary report.  The authors report their preliminary experience with the Charleston bending brace for the treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.  This brace holds the patient in the position of maximum side bend correction and is worn only at night.  Patients in this prospective multicentered study met all the following criteria: skeletal immaturity (Risser 0, 1+, or 2+), curvature greater than 25 degrees before bracing, no prior treatment, and greater than 1-year follow-up since initiation of treatment.  There were 191 structural curves in the 139 patients.  One hundred fifteen patients (83%) showed improvement or less than 5 degree change in curvature.  Twenty-four patients (17%) demonstrated an increase in curvature greater than 5 degrees.  Based on these preliminary results, continued use of bending brace treatment at nighttime only is justified for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.  Patients with double curves should be observed closely for increase in compensatory curves.
Tarsal tunnel syndrome. Causes and results of operative treatment.  From 1975 to 1988, operative treatment was performed on 50 feet in 45 patients with tarsal tunnel syndrome.  The causes of this syndrome were correlated with operative findings and included ganglia in 18, and a bony prominence from talocalcaneal coalition in 15.  Five feet had sustained an injury, tumours were found in three and there was no obvious cause in nine.  In most cases in need of operative treatment, there was a space-occupying lesion.  Classifying the results according to causes, those with coalition or a tumour fared better, and idiopathic and traumatic cases had a worse outcome.  In cases with a definite lesion, an excellent result can be expected from surgical treatment carried out soon after onset of the condition.
Nonhemophilic hemosiderotic synovitis of the shoulder. A case report.  In a nonhemophilic 72-year-old man, a persistent degenerative hemarthrosis of the shoulder joint was associated with a complete tear of the rotator cuff.  Extensive, rusty synovial pigmentation and hyperplasia (hemosiderotic synovitis) mimicking pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVS) were noted at surgery.  Spontaneous hemarthrosis of the shoulder includes rapid onset of severe pain, limitation of movement, subsequent appearance of a bruise on the affected shoulder and arm, and radiological evidence of joint degeneration.  Hemosiderotic synovitis results from chronic intraarticular bleeding.  With the breakdown of trapped hemoglobin, iron-containing hemosiderin is stored in synovial tissue producing rusty discoloration and proliferative reaction.  The classic cytoarchitecture of PVS has additional subsynovial nodular proliferation of mononuclear cells.  Hemarthrosis may produce significant structural alteration of joints.  Its prompt recognition and the awareness of underlying causes should lead to earlier diagnosis, appropriate therapy, less joint destruction, and better outcomes.
Hyperparathyroidism.  Since the introduction of routine automated measurements of serum calcium levels in the 1970s, the detection of primary hyperparathyroidism has risen considerably.  Nevertheless, the severe bone changes described by von Recklinghausen are still quite rare.  The apparent rise in incidence is accounted for by the discovery of a large group of predominantly asymptomatic elderly patients who have mild primary hyperparathyroidism.  Because the diagnosis is most often confirmed through laboratory tests, radiologic studies are now most useful in assessing the severity of the disease.  The presence of bone changes is an accepted indication for parathyroid surgery in primary hyperparathyroidism.  For patients with asymptomatic disease in whom nonsurgical treatment may be considered, radiographic evaluation is one of several techniques that may be used to assess progression.  High resolution radiographs of the hands are most valuable in this regard.  Accelerated bone mineral loss, as measured by quantitative techniques, will probably play a significant role in the future.  Radiographic follow-up of patients with renal disease and secondary hyperparathyroidism is equally important, as increased bone or soft tissue changes may indicate a need for therapeutic change.  Radiographically identifiable changes of hyperparathyroidism consist mainly of various types of accelerated bone resorption.  Multifocal subperiosteal resorption is generally considered to be pathognomonic of hyperparathyroidism.  Subligamentous, subchondral, endosteal, and intracortical resorption are also important manifestations of accelerated bone turnover.  The earliest bone changes are visible in the hands and should be searched for especially carefully in the phalanges and terminal tufts.  Only occasionally will changes be found elsewhere in the skeleton when hand changes are not present.
Surgical management of cervical soft disc herniation. A comparison between the anterior and posterior approach.  Anterior cervical fusion was initially described in the 1950s for cervical spondylotic radiculopathy.  The indications for this procedure in the management of soft disc herniation have not been clearly defined.  In addition, controversy exists as to whether a cervical soft herniation should be managed by an anterior approach or a posterior cervical laminotomy-foraminotomy.  The authors report the results of a prospective study comparing anterior discectomy and fusion to posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy for the management of soft cervical disc herniation.  Twenty-eight patients underwent anterior discectomy and fusion (Robinson horseshoe graft) while 16 patients underwent posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy.  The disc herniations were classified into two types.  Type I were single level anterolateral herniations (33 patients) while type II were central soft disc herniations (11 patients).  Clinically, patients with type I herniations manifested signs and symptoms of radiculopathy while patients with type II herniations manifested signs of myelopathy or neck pain and bilateral upper extremity paresthesias in 4 patients.  Confirmatory studies were myelography in 12 patients, myelography combined with computed tomography (CT) in 26 patients, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 6 patients.  For type I herniations, 17 patients underwent anterior fusion while 16 patients had a posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy.  The 11 patients classified as type II herniation all underwent anterior discectomy and fusion.  There were 27 men and 17 women.  The age range was 21 to 52 years (mean, 41 years).  The follow-up was 1.6 to 8.2 years (mean, 4.2 years).
Pseudo-abscess of the psoas bursa in failed double-cup arthroplasty of the hip.  Seven psoas bursae filled with purulent fluid and inspissated debris were revealed at revision operations for failed resurfacing hip arthroplasties, an incidence of 5.8% in such revisions.  Histological and microbiological investigations demonstrated that the psoas bursa collections resulted from the tissue response to polyethylene wear debris.  None was due to infection.
Digital radiography can reduce scoliosis x-ray exposure.  Digital radiology is a new computerized system of acquiring x-rays in a digital (electronic) format.  It possesses a greatly expanded dose response curve that allows a very broad range of x-ray dose to produce a diagnostic image.  Potential advantages include significantly reduced radiation exposure without loss of image quality, acquisition of images of constant density irrespective of under or over exposure, and reduced repeat rates for unsatisfactory films.  The authors prospectively studied 30 adolescents with scoliosis who had both conventional (full dose) and digital (full, one-half, or one-third dose) x-rays.  They found digital made AP and lateral image with all anatomic areas clearly depicted at full and one-half dose.  Digital laterals were better at full dose and equal to conventional at one-half dose.  Cobb angles were easily measured on all one-third dose AP and on 8 of 10 one-third dose digital laterals.  Digital clearly depicted the Risser sign at one-half and one-third dose and the repeat rate was nil in this study, indicating digital compensates well for exposure errors.  The study indicates that digital does allow radiation dose to be reduced by at least one-half in scoliosis patients and that it does have improved image quality with good contrast over a wide range of x-ray exposure.
L-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  We describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with L-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  The illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias, arthralgias and paresthesias.  The physical findings consist of muscle tenderness, neuropathies, rash, peripheral and periorbital edema.  Electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3.  Skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema, inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin, whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle.  Seven patients were treated with prednisone; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted.
Psychological characteristics of children with Shwachman syndrome.  Twelve children and young adults with Shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability, motor skills, and behaviour.  There were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with Shwachman syndrome and the other two groups.  Four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range.  The differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant, though those with Shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores.  There was no evidence that those with Shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects.  We suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with Shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth.
Identification of alpha-motor nerve fiber potentials in lumbar epidural space and its clinical significance.  The alpha-efferent component of spinal root potentials (SRPs) was recorded in the lumbar epidural space stimulating the tibial and peroneal nerves for clinical diagnosis and clinical treatment.  Five normal volunteers and 15 clinical cases with lumbar disc herniation (LDH) were examined.  The SRP by the tibial nerve stimulation in the normal control group consisted of two kinds of potentials with different latency.  Simultaneous electromyogram (EMG) recording from the stimulated muscles indicated that the shortest latency potential (first potential) was the ascending volley, including orthodromic afferent and antidromic alpha-efferent volleys; and that the long latency potential (second potential) was the descending volley of reflexively evoked alpha-efferents by the Group Ia afferents.  The component of alpha-efferent fiber potential was recorded in the following two methods by changing the intensity of stimulation: 1) identifying alpha-efferent components in the first potential and 2) recording the second potential.  Conduction blockage of spinal roots in 15 clinical cases was demonstrated as abnormal positivity and prolonged duration of the potentials.  New methods were introduced to estimate two parameters quantitatively.  The present study showed either of these signs in all patients tested.  The examination was helpful to determine the level(s) of lumbar motor radiculopathies, and the extent of pathologic neuropathy.
Hyposomatomedinemia in men with post-poliomyelitis syndrome.  The age of onset of the post-poliomyelitis syndrome (PPS) coincides with the tendency for declining activity of the growth hormone/somatomedin C (GH/SmC) axis.  The normal plasma SmC range in men before the age of 40 is 0.50 to 1.50 units/mL.  After age 40 about 30% of men have a plasma SmC level below 0.35 units/mL, signifying no detectable spontaneous GH secretory pulses.  Because the GH/SmC axis stimulates DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis in muscle cells and increases their size and number, a deficiency of the GH/SmC axis could theoretically contribute as a secondary factor to the occurrence or severity of the PPS.  Accordingly, the authors measured the plasma SmC level in 10 men with PPS, ages 35 to 63, and in 94 healthy men of similar age.  In the PPS men, 100% of the values were less than or equal to 0.40 units/mL, and 90% were less than or equal to 0.35 units/mL.  The corresponding proportions in the healthy men were 40% and 27%.  Analysis of variance including age as a factor showed SmC to be significantly lower in the PPS men than in the healthy men.  In an additional comparison, totally immobile nursing home men did not have lowered SmC values.  In fact their SmC values were slightly higher than those of healthy men of similar age.  The data revealed a new biochemical feature of PPS, hyposomatomedinemia, which might play a contributory role in the pathogenesis of the syndrome.
Eosinophilic granuloma of bladder.  Eosinophilic granuloma of the bladder, a rare and certainly poorly known disease, simulates bladder neoplasms.  Clinical aspects, histology, and therapy in a young boy are described.
Septic arthritis of the C1-C2 lateral facet joint and torticollis: pseudo-Grisel's syndrome.  We present the case of a 76-year-old man who experienced the sudden development of fever, rightsided neck pain and stiffness, and torticollis.  A soft tissue mass was noted on the right side of his neck, but his head was tilted to the left.  Computed tomography scans (with reformatted sagittal and coronal images) of the patient's cervical spine revealed destructive changes of the right lateral masses of C1 and C2 and the clivus, and a well-delineated peridontoid soft tissue mass (confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging).  After the second episode of right-sided hemiparesis, he underwent transoral surgical exploration, with anterior decompression and odontoidectomy.  Histologic examination of the surgical material revealed granulation tissue, fibrosis, and chronic inflammation, consistent with abscess formation with invasion and compression of the spinal cord and bone.  This case suggests that nonreducible rotational head tilt to the side opposite the side of lateral mass collapse should raise the suspicion of a possible infection.
Total hip arthroplasty in ankylosing spondylitis.  Total hip arthroplasty was performed on 29 hips in 19 patients diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis over a 13-year period.  The results were analyzed retrospectively with an average follow-up period of more than four years.  Complete pain relief was achieved in 97%, and significant gains were made in ambulatory capacity.  The limited gains in total range of motion (average improvement 75 degrees) were felt to be primarily due to the high incidence of Brooker Class III and IV myositis ossificans (23%) and long-standing soft tissue contractures.
Zygomatic approach to skull-base lesions.  A modification of the preauricular skull-base approach is described.  After sectioning and downward displacement of the zygomatic arch, the coronoid process of the mandible is dissected and sectioned at its base.  The temporal muscle, with its coronoid insertion, is then retracted upward.  This approach provides direct and unobstructed access to the temporal and infratemporal fossae.  Adequate vascularity of the temporal muscle is maintained.  The exposure encompasses the internal carotid artery in the neck for vascular control.  Extensive reconstruction is eliminated.  The described technique was used in seven patients with lesions of the skull base.  There was no operative mortality, and morbidity consisted of temporary restriction of mandibular opening in two patients.
Reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament.  The results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free, autogenous, non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution.  Eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years.  In forty-eight (60 per cent) of the knees, the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band.  The patients were evaluated with a physical examination, a KT-1000 arthrometer, radiographs, a subjective questionnaire, and a revision of the scale of The Hospital for Special Surgery for rating ligaments.  Postoperatively, seventy-six (95 per cent) of the eighty knees no longer gave way, and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven (84 per cent) of the knees.  The average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points.  All of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction.  Arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty (76 per cent) of the treated knees.  In the patient who had bilateral reconstruction, the laxity was the same in both knees.  Seventeen patients, who had more than three millimeters of translation, also had additional related ligamentous instability, most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament.  We think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction.
An unusual manifestation of Paget's disease of bone: spinal epidural hematoma presenting as acute cauda equina syndrome.  Neurologic sequelae of Paget's disease of bone include involvement of the spinal cord or cauda equina due to mechanical compression by enlarged vertebrae, ischemia caused by a spinal artery, steal syndrome or neoplasm.  We describe a patient with Paget's disease of bone who presented with acute cauda equina syndrome due to a spinal epidural hematoma.  Clinicians need to recognize this entity since surgical intervention may result in a favorable outcome.
A report of fluorosis in the United States secondary to drinking well water.  A 54-year-old female resident of Wellston, Okla, was found to have osteosclerosis on a routine chest roentgenogram.  Subsequent investigation disclosed the cause of her osteosclerosis to be fluorosis secondary to the ingestion of well water containing 429 mumol/L of fluoride (recommended levels, 11 to 58 mumol/L).  Water samples were also obtained from the 12 wells on properties adjacent to the index case.  In three other wells, all at similar depths as the well of the index case, the fluoride concentration of the water was greater than 212 mumol/L.  Urine samples from members of the four households who obtain their drinking water from these wells contained elevated urinary fluoride levels.  Thus, fluorosis may develop in certain areas of the United States as a result of the natural occurrence of fluoride in the groundwater.  Consequently, in known endemic areas, it would appear reasonable to measure the fluoride concentration of the well water at the time of drilling.
A self-report articular index measure of arthritic activity: investigations of reliability, validity and sensitivity.  A self-report measure of rheumatoid arthritic activity developed from the articular index described by Thompson, Silman, Kirwan, and Currey (1987), was tested for reliability, validity, and sensitivity to therapeutic change.  Concurrent validity was demonstrated by a significant correlation, (ICC = 0.83) between the self-report measure and a standard Thompson index completed by a rheumatologist.  Test-retest reliability was demonstrated by significant correlations (ICC = 0.88, ICC = 0.77) between repeated administrations of the self-report form in 2 independent samples.  The self-report measure demonstrated sensitivity to therapeutic change when completed by patients both before and after intraarticular corticosteroid injection.  The rheumatologist's index correlated significantly with C-reactive protein but the self-report form did not.
Mycetoma: comparison of MR imaging with CT.  Magnetic resonance (MR) images obtained in 18 patients with pathologically confirmed mycetoma in the body (n = 4) or lower extremity (n = 14) were retrospectively reviewed and compared with computed tomographic (CT) scans in 15 patients and surgical findings in 10.  T1-weighted images showed an infiltrating mass (same signal intensity as muscle) involving skin, subcutaneous fat, muscles, tendons, and other tissues.  On T2-weighted images, the mass and affected structures showed moderately increased signal intensity.  Bone marrow involvement was detected in seven patients and was best visualized on T1-weighted images.  CT showed moderate enhancement of the infiltrative process in all patients.  Bone changes, seen in nine, included coarse trabeculation, periosteal reaction, endosteal proliferation, and patchy destruction.  MR imaging and CT were comparable and correlated well with surgery in showing the extent of soft-tissue involvement.  Early bone changes (important for therapy planning for pedal mycetoma) were seen only at CT.  The study showed that MR imaging is sensitive for assessing the extent of mycetoma in the soft tissues.  CT should be the method of choice for staging pedal lesions because it can be used to detect early bone involvement.
Motion analysis of the cervical spine in athetoid cerebral palsy. Extension-flexion motion.  Frequently instability and premature onset of spondylosis of the cervical spine are found in athetoid cerebral palsy (CP) patients.  These structural abnormalities appear to be related to athetoid motion of the neck in CP.  Through motion analysis, the authors aimed to clarify the abnormalities of cervical motion that could precipitate structural abnormalities.  The gross characteristic feature of cervical motion in athetoid CP is "whip movement." Both velocity and acceleration during extension-flexion motion were greater than in normal subjects, especially at the upper cervical levels.  Also, a sudden increase in velocity and acceleration occurred during rapid motions at certain levels, followed by a larger range of motion of the cervical spine.  Such kinematic abnormalities were thought to generate a greater shearing force and bending moment exerted on the corresponding cervical articulations-discs and facets.  Olisthetic instability often accompanied disc degeneration at the upper cervical levels.  A large range of extension--flexion motion of the cervical spine, analogous to a cantilever, caused a repeated bending moment of extraordinary magnitude and was regarded as a precipitative factor for disc degeneration and osteophytosis common at the middle and lower levels of the disc.
Effects of inosine on glycolysis and contracture during myocardial ischemia.  The effects of inosine (INO) on substrate metabolism and rigor formation in ischemic myocardium were examined in isolated rabbit hearts.  Metabolite content was assessed in tissue extracts by chemical analysis and in the whole heart by 13C and 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.  In ischemic hearts metabolizing either [3-13C]pyruvate or [1-13C]glucose, 1 mM INO increased both total and 13C-labeled alanine content; lactate content was unaffected.  At 3 minutes of ischemia, tissue alanine was 1.81 +/- 0.11 microM/g wet wt (mean +/- SEM) in hearts perfused with pyruvate+INO versus 1.23 +/- 0.15 microM/g wet wt in hearts perfused with pyruvate alone (p less than 0.05).  INO reduced tissue glycogen during ischemia in pyruvate-perfused hearts.  Tissue alanine content in ischemic hearts that were supplied glucose+INO (1.29 +/- 0.13 microM/g wet wt) was greater than in ischemic hearts supplied glucose alone (0.65 +/- 0.14 microM/g wet wt).  Alanine was found to originate from pyruvate and was a glycolytic end product in glucose-perfused hearts.  INO raised the [3-13C]alanine/[3-13C]lactate ratio in ischemic, intact hearts (glucose = 0.24 +/- 0.07 versus glucose+INO = 0.60 +/- 0.09; pyruvate = 0.49 +/- 0.08 versus pyruvate+INO = 0.89 +/- 0.08).  At 7 minutes of ischemia, ATP content fell to 70 +/- 3% with glucose+INO versus 58 +/- 5% with glucose alone.  Rigor (stone heart) was delayed from 14.7 +/- 1.3 to 23.2 +/- 1.6 minutes with INO.  INO did not change ATP content in ischemic hearts that were supplied pyruvate but delayed rigor (pyruvate = 9.9 +/- 1.2 minutes; pyruvate+INO = 15.6 +/- 1.0 minutes), possibly at the expense of glycogen.  Supplemental glucose improved the effectiveness of INO with pyruvate to preserve ATP (pyruvate+glucose = 42 +/- 6%; pyruvate+glucose+INO = 72 +/- 6%) and further delayed rigor (pyruvate+glucose = 13.3 +/- 1.5 minutes; pyruvate+glucose+INO = 20.3 +/- 1.8 minutes).  Glucose metabolism supported improved energetic and contractile states in ischemic hearts treated with INO.  Thus, cardioprotection of the ischemic heart by INO was associated with preservation of functional integrity and improved energy production due to increased glycolytic activity.  Activation of glycolysis in the presence of INO was accommodated by augmented alanine production without the additional accumulation of lactate.
Long-term results of anterior interbody fusion for treatment of degenerative spondylolisthesis.  Thirty-nine patients, 34 women and five men, underwent anterior decompression and interbody fusion for degenerative spondylolisthesis between February 1958 and August 1988.  Their average age at surgery was 51 years (range, 34-74 years), and their average follow-up period was 12 years 7 months (range, 6 months to 30 years).  Clinical evaluation was done by the score rating system of the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA Score).  Patients with JOA scores of 25 points or more were rated as "satisfactory." Survivorship was analyzed by the method of Kaplan and Meier to determine the cumulative percentage of patients with satisfactory results.  The following results were obtained: Seventy-six percent of the patients had satisfactory results for 10 years after the anterior interbody fusion, 60% for 20 years, and 52% for 30 years.  Irrespective of their age at surgery, the patients generally maintained satisfactory results up to 65 years of age.
Valgus deformities of the feet and characteristics of gait in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis.  To investigate the cause of valgus deformity of the hindfoot in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and to characterize the effects of the deformity on gait, two groups of patients were evaluated clinically, radiographically, and with gait analysis in the laboratory.  Group 1 consisted of seven patients who had seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and normal alignment of the feet and Group 2, of ten patients who had rheumatoid arthritis and valgus deformity of the hindfoot.  In Group 2, the disease was of longer duration and the feet were more painful than in Group 1.  There was no evidence of muscular imbalance, equinus contracture, valgus deformity of the tibiotalar joint, or isolated deficiency of the tibialis posterior (such as weakness, tenosynovitis, or rupture of the tendon) that could have contributed to the development of the valgus deformity.  In the patients who had valgus deformity, quantitated electromyography demonstrated that the intensity and duration of activity of the tibialis posterior was significantly increased, apparently in an effort to support the collapsing longitudinal arch of the foot.  Gait studies revealed decreases in velocity, stride length, and single-limb-support time, as well as delayed heel-rise in both groups, but the decreases were more marked in the patients who had valgus deformity.  The results of this study suggest that valgus deformity of the hindfoot in rheumatoid patients results from exaggerated pronation forces on the weakened and inflamed subtalar joint.  These forces are caused by alterations in gait secondary to symmetrical muscular weakness and the effort of the patient to minimize pain in the feet.  Radiographs also suggested an association between the valgus deformity of the feet and valgus deformity of the knees in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis.
The system and procedures of percutaneous intradiscal laser nucleotomy.  Since 1986, percutaneous intradiscal laser nucleotomy (PILN) has been studied in the authors' laser laboratory.  The purpose of this report is to develop PILN as an alternative to chemonucleolysis and percutaneous discectomy, which are currently applied, and to establish a safe, easy, accurate and short-time therapy method for lumbar disc herniation.  After laser irradiation, intradiscal pressures (IDP) decreased and the nucleus pulposus was gradually replaced with cartilaginous fibrous tissue.  The evaluation of heat distribution with thermocouples and thermography was done to determine safe optimum irradiating conditions and to develop a new double-lumen needle and a bare quartz fiber.  Neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd-YAG) laser devices have been improved for easy and safe use, and a new tip type pressure transducer has been made for improved therapeutic results using this new method.
Differential diagnosis between osteitis condensans ilii and sacroiliitis [published erratum appears in J Rheumatol 1991 May;18(5):790]  Sacroiliitis of seronegative spondyloarthropathy may sometimes show on pelvis plain films findings indistinguishable from those of osteitis condensans ilii.  Computed tomography (CT) can differentiate earlier than plain radiography between the 2 conditions; furthermore, it should also be possible to make this differentiation clinically.  The aim of our study was to verify whether the criteria recently proposed by the European Spondylarthropathy Study Group (EESG) for the classification of spondyloarthropathy are useful.  CT scans through the synovial part of the sacroiliac joints of 7 consecutive patients meeting the ESSG criteria and showing typical findings of osteitis condensans ilii on plain films were mixed with those of 15 consecutive patients with osteitis condensans ilii not meeting the ESSG criteria.  Scans were examined for joint space and surface abnormalities blindly and independently by 2 observers.  Six patients in the spondyloarthropathy group and one in the osteiitis condensans ilii group showed clear erosions and/or joint space narrowing of less than 2 mm in at least one joint.  The difference was statistically significant (p less than 0.001).  Our results suggest that by using criteria valid for the whole group of seronegative spondyloarthropathies, it is possible to differentiate clinically between seronegative spondyloarthropathies with sacroiliitis mimicking osteitis condensans ilii and "true" osteitis condensans ilii.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the head and spine: effective for the clinician or the patient?  OBJECTIVES--To test how the results of magnetic resonance imaging influence clinicians' diagnoses and management plans for patients with cranial and spinal problems and to assess changes in the quality of life of these patients.  DESIGN--Survey of patients undergoing cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging with questionnaires about diagnoses and intended management plans before and after imaging and quality of life questionnaires at the time of imaging and again four months later.  SETTING--Regional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy unit.  SUBJECTS--100 consecutive patients referred for cranial imaging in early 1989; 100 similar patients referred for spinal imaging.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Changes in clinicians' leading diagnoses after magnetic resonance imaging and their confidence in these diagnoses; changes in intended management plans; assessment of the contribution to the future management of the patient; changes in patients' quality of life.  RESULTS--Magnetic resonance imaging altered the clinicians' leading diagnoses in 35 of 169 (21%) cases.  The clinicians became more confident about their leading diagnoses in 90 of 167 (54%).  There was a change in management plan in 113 of 182 (62%).  The clinicians considered that magnetic resonance imaging made an important contribution to management in 119 of 162 (73%) patients.  Overall, the patients' quality of life was unchanged at the four month assessment.  CONCLUSIONS--Magnetic resonance imaging of patients with cranial and spinal problems influences clinicians' diagnoses and management plans, but the quality of life of these patients remains unchanged.
Factors associated with soft- and hard-tissue compromise of endosseous implants.  This prospective analysis identifies factors associated with endosseous implant removal as well as factors associated with implant morbidity resulting in nonscheduled patient visits.  Treatment of the latter conditions is discussed.  The most important factors identified for implant success were surgery without compromise in technique, placing implants into sound bone, avoiding thin bone or implant dehiscence at the time of implant placement, avoiding premature implant exposure during the healing period, establishing a balanced restoration, and insuring appropriate follow-up hygiene care.  In the posterior mandible, the presence of keratinized gingiva was strongly correlated with optimal soft- and hard-tissue health.
Radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the limbs.  Limb anomalies and their commonly associated organ malformations are increasingly recognized in fetal life because of the use of high resolution real-time sonography.  In most instances plain radiography establishes the diagnosis of limb anomalies shortly after birth.  In some neonates the diagnosis is tentative until full skeletal maturity is attained.  When evaluation of the soft tissues and unmineralized cartilage or ossification center is a prerequisite to early definitive therapy, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are the procedures of choice.
Corticosteroid-induced juxta-articular adiposis dolorosa.  Long-term treatment with high doses of corticosteroids leads to the development of truncal obesity and focal fatty deposition.  These deposits characteristically are located on the face, the nuchal and truncal areas, and episternally, as well as in the mediastinum and epicardium.  We studied a patient with juxta-articular adiposis dolorosa who had L-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and was treated with high doses of prednisone.  This is the first reported case of adiposis dolorosa occurring as a complication of corticosteroid treatment.  Alterations of fat metabolism induced by corticosteroid excess may have played a role in the development of this unusual painful syndrome.
The prophylactic use of antibiotic impregnated beads in open fractures.  Four hundred four compound fractures were reviewed in 339 patients treated between August 1983 and November 1987.  The 252 males and 87 females had a mean age of 33 years (range, 14-86).  One hundred twenty-seven (31.4%) fractures were classified as Grade I, 153 (38.9%) as Grade II, and 124 (30.7%) as Grade III by Gustilo's classification.  The mean Injury Severity Score was 15 (range, 9-57).  Three hundred thirty-four of the open fractures (82.7%) were managed with antibiotic-impregnated bead chains (tobramycin) and systemic antibiotic prophylaxis (cefazolin, tobramycin, and penicillin).  Seventy open fractures (17.3%) received systemic antibiotic prophylaxis (cefazolin, tobramycin, and penicillin) without supplemental use of the antibiotic beads.  All open fractures underwent acute irrigation and debridement.  In the 404 fractures 46.5% of wounds were closed primarily, 12.9% underwent delayed primary closure, 7.9% were left open, and 32.7% were temporized by the antibiotic bead pouch technique until definitive flap coverage and skin grafting were performed.  Of the 404 fractures evaluated, 17 (4.2%) developed an acute wound infection.  Of these wound infections, eight (11.4%) were in the group managed with systemic antibiotics alone.  By comparison, nine (2.7%) of open fractures treated with combined systemic antibiotics and antibiotic-impregnated beads developed an infection.  Chronic osteomyelitis developed in 18 of 404 open fractures (4.5%).  Ten (14.3%) open fractures which developed osteomyelitis were managed with systemic antibiotics whereas eight (2.4%) fractures managed with systemic antibiotics and antibiotic-impregnated beads developed a chronic infection.
Methods of treating plantar ulcers.  The purpose of this article is to describe the indications, precautions, and fabrication techniques for orthotic devices the authors use to facilitate the healing of plantar ulcers.  The methods of fabricating and applying three types of orthotic devices developed by the staff at the Gillis W Long Hansen's Disease Center--walking casts, walking splints, and cutout sandals--are described.  Patient examples are given for each of the methods.  These techniques, in conjunction with patient education and the use of special footwear, provide clinicians with procedures they can use to aid in the healing of plantar ulcers secondary to leprosy, diabetes, or other neuropathic conditions.
Knodt rod distraction instrumentation in lumbosacral arthrodesis.  Review of 40 patients undergoing lumbosacral fusions over a 4-year period was done to determine the value, efficiency, and safety of Knodt rod distraction instrumentation.  The age range was 30-80 years.  Mean age was 51 years.  Follow-up was 1-4 years.  Twenty patients underwent decompression and fusion for spinal stenosis, nine underwent spinal arthrodesis for instability, six underwent the same for spondylolisthesis, and five underwent fusions for other diagnoses.  A posterior midline approach was used.  Laminal hook sites were prepared, and care was taken to prevent dural compression or tenting.  Balanced distraction was done to restore soft tissue tension and stability.  No attempt was made to reduce deformity.  A posterior and lateral mass fusion augmented with allograft bone was performed on all but three patients, in whom autogenous bone was used.  The majority of patients were placed in a custom-molded lumbosacral orthosis for 3-6 months after operation.  There were no neurologic complications, dural tears, or pseudomeningoceles.  The first sacral laminas were instrumented in 22 patients.  Nine of the 40 patients underwent rod removal.  Reasons for removal were pain due to loosening in five patients and failure of fusion in two.  On rod removal in two patients, no abnormality was found.  Insertion within the sacral laminas did not lead to neurologic complications.  The major problem appeared to be loosening, which necessitated rod removal in 12% of the patients.  Knodt rod distraction instrumentation is a safe and effective method of internal fixation for lumbosacral fusions.
Deep venous thrombosis in intravenous cocaine abuse mimicking septic arthritis of the shoulder.  We describe two patients with deep venous thrombosis of the upper extremity who initially were thought to have septic arthritis of the shoulder.  These patients had a history of recent intravenous cocaine abuse.  The diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis should be considered when a patient with a swollen shoulder has an appropriate history.
Septic olecranon bursitis caused by Neisseria sicca.  A man with rheumatoid arthritis developed a septic olecranon bursitis due to Neisseria sicca.  This case confirms the potential pathogenicity of Neisseria sicca and emphasizes that positive cultures for this organism should not be readily dismissed.
HLA class II and T cell receptor gene polymorphisms in psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis.  HLA-DRB, DQA and DQB genes as well as the T cell receptor (TcR) alpha, beta, and gamma genes were studied by Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA from patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and psoriasis alone (Ps).  A subtype of DR7, DR7a, was found in 38.8% of patients with PsA, 41.5% of patients with Ps, and in 8% of healthy individuals (N) (PsA vs N: pc = 0.0002, RR = 7.1; Ps vs N: pc = 0.0002, RR = 7.9).  No association with TcR genes was found.  Our findings suggest either that the DR7a allele may be in linkage disequilibrium with HLA-Cw6 or that it may be an important susceptibility factor for PsA and Ps.
Metabolic and health complications of obesity.  Overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries.  In spite of increased interest in fitness, obesity is on the increase in the United States.  This is particularly so among children and adolescents.  Although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases, the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood.  Such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions.  In this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or "defect" in a given system.  In the absence of such underlying defects, overnutrition, or obesity, is well tolerated.  One of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia, that is, elevations of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol.  The major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of VLDL.  For patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of VLDL triglycerides, hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state.  For those who have defective clearance of LDL, obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia.  Both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of VLDL, due to obesity, combined with a genetic defect in clearance of VLDL or LDL.  The mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of HDL cholesterol is uncertain, although it could enhance removal of HDL by an excess of adipose tissue.  Another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones.  The presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones.  Two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones: a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile.  Overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol, and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS).
Bone lesions secondary to benign phaeochromocytoma. Four cases in childhood.  Metaphyseal sclerotic bone changes associated with benign phaeochromocytoma are very rare in childhood.  We report four cases, in each of which the radiographic changes returned to normal after removal of the tumour.
The radiologic morphology of painful temporomandibular joints.  A high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of patients having pain in the temporomandibular joint region.  Radiologic morphologic differences between painful and asymptomatic temporomandibular joints were in frequency rather than type.  Caution should be taken not to overestimate the significance of radiologic abnormality in patients with pain in the temporomandibular joint region.
Radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies of the skull.  Congenital anomalies of the pediatric skull are caused by a diverse group of disorders.  For the purposes of this discussion, these entities can be classified according to the radiographic appearance of the skull, which may be similar in a variety of different diseases.  Enlarged parietal foramina, sinus pericranii, aplasia cutis congenita, anterior fontanelle dermoid, cephaloceles, and craniolacunia are all examples of loceles, and craniolacunia are all examples of calvarial defects.  Although there are numerous causes for wormian bones (Table 1), OI, cleidocranial dysplasia, congenital hypothyroidism, and hypophosphatasia are disorders that are commonly associated with defective ossification and the appearance of wormian bones.  Osteopetrosis is an important example of rare bony dysplasias that cause sclerosis and hyperostosis of the skull.  A partial list of other disorders causing similar radiographic findings is found in Table 2.  Craniosynostosis results in an abnormality of skull shape.  The suture(s) involved may be predicted by the deformed calvarial configuration.  Knowledge of the growth and development of the skull and an understanding of the varied causes of congenital skull anomalies can enable the radiologist to provide the diagnosis or an informed differential diagnosis when confronted with a specific radiographic finding.
Scapular allografts. A report of two cases.  Some malignant tumors of the scapula can be adequately treated by limb-sparing, partial, or total scapulectomy.  However, resection of the glenoid portion of the scapula and total scapulectomy result in an unsightly shoulder.  In an attempt to minimize the functional impairment and restore stability and cosmesis, scapular glenoid allografts offer a reasonably good biologic replacement.  This report describes the cases of a 45-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man in whom massive osteoarticular allografts were used.  In one patient, good stability, cosmesis, and function were restored after resection of the glenoid portion.  In the other patient, shoulder stability, cosmesis, and limited function were restored after total scapulectomy.  No reports of scapular allografts seem to have been previously published in the literature.
Hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation. A newly identified condition.  A newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described.  In the affected family, at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life.  Three members of the family have been studied in detail.  Each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night.  Constipation was an associated symptom, in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation.  Clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance.  The maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity.  Anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter.  Two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain.  The hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes, consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-Schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis.  In vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline, isoprenaline, carbachol, dimethylpiperazinium, and electrical-field stimulation.  Immunohistochemical studies for substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, neuropeptide Y, and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue.  A specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized.
Adaptive and remodeling changes in the fractured mandibular condyle after open reduction using the Kirschner pin.  Six cases of fracture of the mandibular condyloid process in which there was osteosynthesis using the Kirschner pin were followed radiographically for more than 1 year.  Tracings were made to analyze the remodeling process.  The clinical course of all patients was satisfactory, without functional disturbance or asymmetries of the mandible.
Eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion. A manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Recently, the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, which is characterized by eosinophilia, myalgias, and several less consistently reported findings.  We treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms.  Twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia, with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88.  The remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined.  Eight patients complained of myalgias.  Other symptoms included arthralgias, pruritus, cutaneous burning, weakness, fever, rashes, malaise, edema, muscle spasms, and alopecia.  5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested.  Our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome.  Derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases.
Composite temporalis pedicle flap as an interpositional graft in temporomandibular joint arthroplasty: a preliminary report.  Fifteen temporomandibular joint patients were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively to evaluate the effectiveness of a composite (fascia, muscle and periosteum) temporalis pedicle flap as an interpositional disc replacement.  A modified Craniomandibular Index (CMI) and Symptom Severity Index (SSI) were used to assess clinical and subjective symptoms.  Eighteen months postoperatively there was a significant reduction in the CM and SS indices (P less than .001), with significant clinical improvement of the mandibular range of motion (P less than .05).  However, a significant reduction of translation (P less than .01) was evident indicating that the increased mandibular opening was owing to a compensatory rotational movement.  This study indicates that the composite temporalis pedicle flap is a good autogenous tissue for the reconstruction of the temporomandibular joint.
Epidemiology in bone and joint infection.  The studies of community-acquired infection indicate the importance of the environment in which the host-pathogen interaction takes place.  Whereas the high incidence rates at the extremes of life are compatible with a hypothesis of diminished immune competence, the varying rates of acute osteomyelitis during growth, and its predominantly metaphyseal site, suggest that further studies of the molecular biology of this rather specific infection would be revealing.  Molecular biology has a role, too, in improving understanding of the epidemiology of resistance and pathogenicity in hospital-acquired infections.  Although antibiotic prescription and other medical practices influence the environment profoundly, we should remember that we may be experiencing long-term trends beyond our present understanding.  As more and more reconstructive bone and joint surgery is carried out, careful observational epidemiology remains a vital tool.
Bracing for patellar instability.  Knee pain secondary to problems with patellar tracking is common.  The initial treatment for these problems is conservative.  Patellar orthotics have been used extensively to treat a variety of extensor mechanism problems.  Millions of health care dollars are spent annually on the use of these braces.  There are many different patellar orthotics on the market today.  The use and design of most of these devices are unclear and often lack a solid biomechanical foundation.  The practical mechanical function of these braces is to reduce the lateral displacement of abnormal patellofemoral tracking.  Orthotics that are designed and tested using practical biomechanical principles for applying a medially directed force to the patella seem to have a role in treating patients with knee pain secondary to patellar malalignment and instability.  Well-defined and controlled clinical studies of the use of patellar braces are lacking.
Recurrent childhood myoglobinuria.  Recurrent heritable childhood myoglobinuria is a potentially fatal entity (mortality up to 35%) in which prompt diagnosis and treatment are critical.  Sixty childhood cases have been reported between 1910 to 1988, most with undiagnosed etiologies.  We have studied an additional 40 cases referred to CPMC (1980-1988), suggesting that this condition is largely underdiagnosed or unreported.  We have found important differences between the childhood and adult-onset cases.  Of 77 cases of adult-onset recurrent myoglobinuria, 45% have been diagnosed biochemically.  In contrast, only 30% of the 60 childhood cases from the literature have been diagnosed; 11 with CPT deficiency and 7 with various glycolytic defects, and only 5 of our 40 childhood cases have been diagnosed, all with CPT deficiency.  The 100 combined childhood cases can be divided into an exertional group (type I) with exertion as the leading precipitating factor (46 literature and 10 CPMC cases), a toxic group (type II) with infection and/or fever as the primary precipitant (14 literature and 23 CPMC cases), and 7 undefined cases.  The type I group resembles the adult-onset group in which exercise is also the leading precipitating factor.  There is a slight female predominance (male/female = 1:1.3) in the toxic group vs.  a marked male predominance in the exertional and adult groups (4:1).  Only 4 of 37 cases (11%) of the toxic group are diagnosed (all with CPT deficiency) vs.  19 of 56 cases (34%) of the exertional group (12 CPT, 7 glycolytic) and 45% of the adult group.  The toxic group is also differentiated by a higher mortality rate and by the presence of additional clinical features, including ictal bulbar signs (8 of 18), encephalopathy (4 of 19), and seizures (2 of 7), as well as persistent cardiac abnormalities, developmental delay (4 of 17), and dysmorphic features (2 of 9).  These clinical characteristics clearly differentiate the childhood from the adult cases and suggest the presence of more generalized disease processes and different biochemical etiologies.  A study of the heritable causes of myoglobinuria is important because identification of the biochemical defect may elucidate the pathogenetic mechanism of the myoglobinuria and facilitate the development of rational treatment strategies aimed at circumventing or correcting the metabolic block.
A method of assessment of the clubfoot deformity.  The literature on clubfeet is inadequate because a common method language for assessing the deformity is lacking.  Different severities of clubfoot deformity will give different results for a standard procedure: a less severe deformity can be corrected by limited releases, whereas a severe deformity requires radical procedures.  This paper presents a language of assessment that has been used for a number of years.  The importance of developing a language of assessment to be able to identify the various types of clubfoot deformity is important if the treatment of this condition is to develop within the field of pediatric orthopedics.
Tibial nonunions. Treatment tactics with the Ilizarov method.  The key to the success of the Ilizarov method is that the rigid systems, such as plates and traditional external fixators that bypass the nonunion, have been replaced by the axially elastic system of Ilizarov.  The cyclic axial telescoping mobility, not rigidity, at the nonunion or fracture site is an important requirement for the formation of reparative callus.  As we gain more experience with the method, we find ourselves capable of solving increasingly more difficult problems with a level of success rarely, if ever, achieved with more conventional methods.
Effect of estrone sulfate on postmenopausal bone loss.  Estrogen replacement therapy confers many beneficial effects to postmenopausal women, such as slowing the rate of bone loss and decreasing the risk of coronary artery disease.  This multicenter, placebo-controlled study evaluated the lowest effective daily dose of estrone sulfate (0.3, 0.625, or 1.25 mg) combined with 1000 mg elemental calcium supplementation for preventing bone loss in the immediate supplementation for preventing bone loss in the immediate postmenopausal period.  Spinal bone mineral density was measured using quantitative computed tomography.  Compared with baseline, bone mineral density increased significantly (P less than .05) after 12 months of 0.625 mg daily (+ 1.9%) or 1.25 mg daily (+ 2.5%).  The difference between the 0.625-mg and 1.25-mg doses was not statistically significant.  Estrone sulfate administration (0.625 and 1.25 mg) produced significant changes in various lipid measurements at both the 6- and 12-month observation points.  The prevalence rates for adverse events were comparable among the estrone sulfate groups and the placebo group.  Estrone sulfate 0.625 mg daily, combined with 1000 mg elemental calcium supplementation, was the minimum effective dosage to prevent loss of spinal bone mineral density in postmenopausal women over a 12-month period.
Periapical lesions of mandibular bone: difficulties in early diagnostics.  It is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease.  In this paper these problems are discussed, and some suggestions are made to overcome them.  The discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma, histiocytic lymphoma, and chronic osteomyelitis.  The patients were a boy and two middle-aged women, all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling, diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone, uncertain response to treatment, and an unusual progress of the disease.
Laboratory tests for rheumatic diseases.  A carefully taken history and thorough physical examination remain the most crucial aspects of diagnosing rheumatic disorders.  Non-rheumatologic conditions also need to be kept in mind.  Laboratory tests should be looked on as mostly supportive or confirmatory, because many of the tests are relatively nonspecific and may lack sensitivity.  If their limitations are recognized, however, the tests can be invaluable tools when the clinician confronts the task of differentiating an array of rheumatologic disorders.
Eosinophilic granuloma of the lung presenting as a solitary pulmonary nodule.  A symptomless 58 year old man had an eosinophilic granuloma of the lung that presented as a solitary pulmonary nodule rather than the usual diffuse reticulonodular shadow on the chest radiograph.  Only one previous case presenting in this way has been described.
Transarticular fixation for severely displaced supracondylar fractures in children.  We have reviewed 34 children who had been treated by open reduction through a medial incision and transarticular pinning for a severely displaced supracondylar fracture of the humerus.  Follow-up ranging from nine months to 20 years showed that 27 of 34 elbows (79%) had excellent or good results, with satisfactory resolution of neurovascular problems and no complications due to the method of treatment.
Gonococcal osteomyelitis. Case report and review of the literature.  We report the 11th case of gonococcal osteomyelitis in the postantibiotic era.  This case demonstrates the classic presentation of osteomyelitis associated with gonorrhea, a subacute illness with minimal systemic symptoms.  In addition, we present radiologic evidence of the pathogenesis of this unusual osteomyelitis from a contiguous joint infection.
Schwartz-Jampel syndrome with dominant inheritance.  The Schwartz-Jampel syndrome (SJS) is a rare congenital multisystem disorder of unknown pathogenesis which is characterized by distinct faces, skeletal deformities, joint contractures, short stature, muscle hypertrophy, clinical myotonia, and continuous muscle fiber activity.  The inheritance pattern of SJS has been assumed to be autosomal recessive.  We report the occurrence of the classic SJS syndrome in both a father and son in a non-consanguineous family, suggesting that SJS has the potential for a dominant pattern of inheritance.
Depletion of muscle mitochondrial DNA in AIDS patients with zidovudine-induced myopathy.  Long-term zidovudine therapy in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection can cause a destructive mitochondrial myopathy with histological features of ragged-red fibres (RRF) and proliferation of abnormal mitochondria.  In 9 zidovudine-treated patients with this myopathy we found severely reduced amounts (up to 78% reduction vs normal adult controls) of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in muscle biopsy specimens by means of Southern blotting.  In 2 HIV-positive patients who had not received zidovudine, muscle mtDNA content did not differ from that in the 4 controls.  Depletion of mtDNA seems to be reversible, since 1 patient showed a substantial reduction in RRF and a concomitant pronounced increase in muscle mtDNA content after zidovudine therapy was discontinued.  Depletion of muscle mtDNA is probably due to zidovudine-induced inhibition of mtDNA replication by DNA polymerase gamma and is not a secondary effect of HIV infection.
Methotrexate-nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug interaction in children with arthritis.  In order to assess the interaction between methotrexate (MTX) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAID), we studied the pharmacokinetics of oral MTX alone and in the presence of the usually prescribed NSAID in 7 children with chronic arthritis.  The NSAID studied included tolmetin, indomethacin, naproxen, and aspirin.  Six patients were treated with multiple NSAID.  The mean MTX elimination half-life was prolonged when NSAID were coadministered (1.7 +/- 0.5 vs 1.2 +/- 0.1 h; p = 0.03).  However, neither the apparent MTX clearance (CI) (10.6 +/- 5.5 vs 13.1 +/- 3.5 l/h; p = 0.19), the area under the serum MTX concentration-time curve (Auc) (2.1 +/- 1.0 vs 1.5 +/- 0.6 mumol/l/h; p = 0.08) or the apparent volume of distribution (Vd) (23.0 +/- 6.2 vs 21.9 +/- 6.4 l; p = 0.53) was significantly altered by the administration of NSAID.  Although the differences between the mean Cl and Auc were not statistically significant, a wide variation in the impact of NSAID on MTX Cl was observed.  In 6 of 7 patients, the Auc increased during NSAID administration from 19 to 140%.  This degree of increase may be clinically significant in some individuals.  It is consequently recommended to closely monitor patients who are receiving MTX and NSAID for MTX toxicity until these results can be verified in a larger population.
Postoperative lumbar spinal instability occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy.  The manifestations and pathomechanism of postoperative lumbar spinal instability, occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy, was clarified by means of functional radiographic analysis in a series of 46 patients over 40 years of age.  The relation between instability and the clinical symptoms also is discussed.  In patients under 60 years of age, instability at the operated level tended to appear in cases of wide laminectomy more often than in cases of partial laminectomy.  Occurrence or progress of instability seems to be promoted by resection of the posterior spinal elements rather than the disc.  It is further considered that the postoperative aggravation of clinical symptoms may be influenced not only by instability, but also by the other factors.
Microscopically assisted posterior lumbar interbody fusion.  Microscopically assisted posterior lumbar interbody fusion was performed on 27 patients who had either spondylolisthesis or chronic lower back pain after previous lower back surgery.  Overall improved satisfactory results occurred in 22 of 27 patients.  Roentgenographic, stable, interbody fusion occurred in 22 of 27 patients.  The poorest results and highest rate of pseudarthrosis occurred in patients with double-level fusions.  Pseudarthrosis occurred in four of six patients with double-level fusions and unsatisfactory clinical results occurred in five of six patients with double-level fusions.  Advantages of the microscopic technique are better examination of the surgical site, less blood loss, and less surgical dissection than other surgical salvage techniques.  This procedure should be reserved for single-level pathology in the lumbosacral spine.
The foot and footwear.  In the field of sports medicine we see increasing numbers of foot- and leg-related injuries that could have been avoided, either totally or in part, had the individual chosen the proper footwear.  There is no such thing as the ideal shoe for all types of feet and all terrains, however.  When an athlete has a chronic problem that does not respond to properly fitted shoes, a physician consultation should be considered.
Unusual presentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid.  An unusual case of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid in which syncope was a major presenting feature is reported.  No such case has been reported in the literature.  A possible explanation is offered.
Ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery in the treatment of metastatic colon carcinoma. Preliminary results.  Cryosurgery, the in situ freezing of cancer, has been proposed in the past as a possible treatment for unresectable hepatic tumors.  Its advantage lies in the fact that it is a very focal treatment sacrificing less normal tissue than surgical resection, allowing treatment of multiple lobes.  Because cryosurgery does not affect large vessels, tumors in difficult locations, such as adjacent to the inferior vena cava (IVC), can be treated.  With the use of intraoperative ultrasound to place the cryoprobes and monitor the freezing process, 18 patients with unresectable metastatic colon carcinoma confined to the liver were treated.  Of the 18 patients treated, 4 (22%) are in complete remission as determined by computed tomography (CT) scans and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels, with a mean follow-up of 28.8 months.  Four patients (22%) were not adequately treated at the time of cryosurgery.  The number of lesions frozen in each patient ranged from 1 to 12, with a mean of 6 lesions.  Fourteen patients had bilobar disease; three patients had previous right lobectomies with recurrences in their remaining left lobes prior to cryosurgery, and one patient had unilobar disease.  Mean survival of the 14 cases with recurrence was 21.4 months, with 2 of the 14 still alive.  Ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery appears to be an effective treatment for metastatic colon carcinoma to the liver that is unresectable (including patients with bilobar and multiple lesions).  These preliminary results indicate that the procedure warrants further study.
Flexion-extension views in the evaluation of cervical-spine injuries.  STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of flexion-extension (F/E) cervical-spine radiographs in detecting acute cervical-spine instability in emergency patients.  DESIGN: We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 141 consecutive trauma patients who had F/E views performed after a routine cervical-spine series (three views) was obtained in the emergency department.  Interpretations of the routine series were compared with those of the F/E views to determine if additional useful information was provided by the latter.  The charts also were reviewed to determine if any variables were associated with an increased use of F/E views, an increased likelihood of these views demonstrating instability, or any neurologic sequelae resulted from these studies.  SETTING: An urban Level I adult trauma center.  MEASUREMENTS: The interpretations of the routine series were noted to be either normal, abnormal but without demonstrable fracture/dislocation, or demonstrating a fracture/dislocation.  The F/E views were categorized as stable, unstable, or uninterpretable.  RESULTS: Cervical-spine instability was demonstrated by F/E views in 11 of the 141 patients (8%), four of whom had normal routine cervical-spine films.  Three of these four patients required surgical stabilization.  Prolonged neck pain (more than 24 hours), an initially abnormal spine series, and a neurosurgical consult were all associated with an increased use of F/E views.  Ten of 11 patients with radiographic instability had significant neck pain by history; the remaining patient was intoxicated.  No neurologic sequelae resulted from performing F/E studies.  There was one false-negative F/E study, which raises concern about the reliability of this procedure in the ED.  CONCLUSION: We believe that a large prospective study is required to determine which patients warrant F/E views.
Functional stability of the canine cervical spine after injury. A three-month in vivo study.  Although clinical instability is an in vivo problem, most spinal instability criteria are either subjective or are based on in vitro experiments.  The authors performed an in vivo experiment using a canine model to study the natural history of spinal instability as a function of healing time up to 12 weeks.  Three injuries were produced surgically: sham; laminectomy at C4; and bilateral facetectomy at C4-C5.  Three 1.5-mm steel balls were implanted into C3 to C6 vertebrae at the time of surgery.  Standardized functional flexion-extension stereoradiographs of the cervical spine were obtained before injury, immediately after injury and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.5, 9, and 12 weeks postinjury and immediately after killing the animals.  In general, the authors found decreased ranges of motion (ROM) at the C4-C5 level, compared with the pre-injury values, for all injuries, but most significantly for the facetectomy.  The maximum decrease occurred between 0 and 0.5 weeks postinjury.  Between 2 and 12 weeks, there was recovery in the ROM, especially for the two less severe injuries.  The changes in the ROM at each spinal level were explained by simultaneous presence of a destabilizing factor, caused by the three different injuries with the sham as the least and the facetectomy as the most destabilizing injury, and a stabilizing mechanism of muscle spasm in the beginning and of healing and other adaptive responses in the late phase after injury.  Because of the significant differences between the canine model and the human cervical spine, the present findings should be extrapolated to the human situation with caution.
Haemangiopericytoma of the temporal bone.  Haemangiopericytoma is an uncommon vascular tumour with a widespread distribution.  Although meningeal involvement is well recognized, only a few sporadic cases of temporal bone lesions have been documented, all with doubtful sites of origin.  Late presentation together with the restrictive anatomy of this region often precludes its effective removal and even minimal residual disease may progress rapidly.  A series of three such patients are presented in order to discuss the natural history, histological features and treatment of this disease.
Progression of osteoarthritis of the hand and metacarpal bone loss. A twenty-year followup of incident cases.  We examined the prospective relationship between metacarpal bone mass and osteoarthritis (OA) of the hand, using incidence data from the historical cohort in the Tecumseh Community Health Study (Tecumseh, MI).  Women were examined for radiographic evidence of OA and for bone mass twice, 20-23 years apart (1962-1965 and 1985; 683 subjects with an age range of 55-74 in 1985).  Two measures of OA were evaluated: the highest score assigned to any of the 32 wrist/hand joints, and the sum of scores for all wrist/hand joints.  After adjustment for age, women who were classified as having OA (by either measure of OA) in 1985 were more likely to have more cortical area at baseline, which indicates greater bone mass.  Women who developed OA in the 23-year period were more likely to experience a significantly greater widening of the medullary cavity over time, an indicator of increased bone resorption.  Women with increasing levels of OA involvement also had an increased likelihood of greater cortical area loss.  We conclude that women who later developed OA were more likely to have higher baseline bone mass than women who did not develop OA, but these women also had a greater likelihood of bone loss over time.
Lyme disease: recommendations for diagnosis and treatment   The incidence and the endemic range of Lyme disease in the United States have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in Lyme, Connecticut, in 1975.  Because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods, diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate.  The antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly.  They show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results.  The clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of Lyme disease are reviewed.  The reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness.
Osteoarthrosis retards the development of osteoporosis. Observation of the coexistence of osteoarthrosis and osteoporosis.  The clinical, roentgenographic, and biochemical features of the dorsal and lumbar spine were reviewed in 72 postmenopausal women.  Nineteen women had both osteoporosis (vertebral collapse) and osteoarthrosis.  These patients were compared with 26 patients who had only osteoarthrosis of the spine and 27 who had only vertebral collapse.  The patients who had both spinal osteoporosis and osteoarthrosis were older, more advanced in menopause, and physically smaller in stature and body weight than the other groups.  They also had higher serum parathyroid hormone level, used nonthiazide diuretics more frequently, and had more nulliparity than the other two groups.  These patients had osteoarthrosis of the hip to a lesser degree than patients affected by osteoarthrosis alone, and they had fewer fractures of the forearm and other sites than patients with osteoporosis alone.  The incidence of femoral neck fractures in both groups, however, was comparable.  These results suggest that osteoarthrosis or a related factor might have a protective effect on the progression of osteoporosis.  These results confirm earlier observations that postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoarthrosis are two distinct diseases and not the result of normal aging.
Differences between florid osseous dysplasia and chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis.  Florid osseous dysplasia (FOD) is confused in the literature with chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis.  Two cases of each condition are presented to demonstrate the differences between them.  In FOD, there are multiple lobulated sclerotic masses in several quadrants of the jaws, usually in black females.  In some cases, the sclerotic masses are exposed to the oral cavity, resulting in a secondary osteomyelitis.  Periapical cemental dysplasia is often found in association with FOD.  Chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis is a primary inflammatory condition of the mandible.  Patients have cyclic episodes of unilateral pain and swelling.  The affected region of the mandible exhibits a diffuse opacity with poorly defined borders.  Although women are affected more often than men, black persons are not particularly susceptible.
Application technique of Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation for scoliosis deformities.  Used in over 600 cases, the posterior Cotrel-Dubousset spinal instrumentation device has become the device of choice.  This technique allows the most effective correction for all kinds of spinal deformities.  It requires lengthy preoperative planning and is a technically demanding surgical procedure; however, because of its versatility it can be adapted to most spinal deformities.  The Cotrel- Dubousset technique is a rigid system of immobilization, and, because it does not require any postoperative immobilization, patients are able to resume their normal lives and activities very quickly.
Central corpectomy for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: a consecutive series with long-term follow-up evaluation.  Since 1984, a consecutive series of patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy has been treated by central corpectomy and strut grafting.  This report focuses on 40 cases operated on between 1984 and 1987 and followed from 2 to 5 years.  The perioperative complication rate was 47.5%, with a 7.5% incidence of persistent sequelae: severe C-5 radiculopathy in one patient, swallowing dysfunction in one, and hypoglossal nerve palsy in one.  No single factor (age, duration of symptoms, or severity of myelopathy) was absolutely predictive of outcome; however, syndromes of short duration had the best likelihood of cure.  Similar outcomes were associated, individually, with long duration of symptoms, age over 70 years, and severe myelopathy.  After factoring a 5% regression of improvement, the long-term cure rate was 57.5% and the failure rate was 15%.  Myelopathy worsening was not documented.
Fine-detail panoramic radiography by free-focus radiography. A clinical demonstration of diagnostic radiographs.  Previous comprehensive clinical studies have shown that free-focus radiography (FFR) may be used to improve image detail and diagnostic value in panoramic radiography of the teeth and jaws.  This study demonstrated the clinical image quality in fine-detail panoramic FFR surveys relative to conventional surveys made by rotational panoramic or intraoral radiography.  Cases of particular diagnostic interest with respect to common dental disease and changes in the jaws were included.  The radiographic area of diagnostic interest depicted in FFR surveys generally resembled that of conventional dental radiographic surveys with the use of intraoral films rather then those of conventional rotational panoramic surveys.
Gallium uptake in tryptophan-related pulmonary disease.  We describe a patient who developed fever, fatigue, muscle weakness, dyspnea, skin rash, and eosinophilia after taking "high doses" of tryptophan for insomnia for two years.  A gallium-67 scan revealed diffuse increased uptake in the lung and no abnormal uptake in the muscular distribution.  Bronchoscopy and biopsy confirmed inflammatory reactions with infiltration by eosinophils, mast cells, and lymphocytes.  CT scan showed an interstitial alveolar pattern without fibrosis.  EMG demonstrated diffuse myopathy.  Muscle biopsy from the right thigh showed an inflammatory myositis with eosinophilic and lymphocytic infiltrations.
Impaired exercise capacity in adults with moderate scoliosis.  We measured lung function and exercise tolerance in 15 adults with moderate kyphoscoliosis (thoracic curvatures between 25 degrees and 70 degrees, mean +/- SD = 46.93 degrees +/- 14.02 degrees).  Forced vital capacity showed a slight reduction from values predicted from age and sex matched control subjects (3.39 +/- 1.06 vs 4.06 +/- 0.82 L, p less than 0.05).  However, exercise tolerance was significantly lower than previously reported in healthy adults (VO2max = 31.60 +/- 9.12 vs 37.07 +/- 4.91 ml/kg/min, p less than 0.05).  Despite the reduced exercise tolerance, the ratio of maximum tidal volume to vital capacity (VTmax/VC) was similar to that observed in healthy adults.  The mean dyspnea index (VEmax/MVV) was also normal at 69.4 +/- 19.0.  Hypoxic and hypercapnic ventilatory responses were within predicted normal limits at 0.67 +/- 0.37 L/min-1 fall in SaO2-1 and 1.67 +/- 0.92 L/min-1 mm Hg PCO2(-1).  We conclude that the impairment of exercise performance found in adults with moderate scoliosis cannot be attributed to any important ventilatory limitation, abnormality in lung volume, or impaired chemoreceptor sensitivity.  We suggest that the reduced VO2max likely arises from deconditioning and lack of regular aerobic exercise.
Amenorrhea, osteopenia, and the female athlete.  Athletic amenorrhea is a problem because it is associated with an increased risk of injuries and potentially an increased risk of osteoporosis in later life.  This article gives suggestions for the evaluation of the athlete with amenorrhea and for treatment protocols.  Primary care physicians should routinely screen female adolescent athletes for amenorrhea and, if athletic amenorrhea is present, initiate treatment or referral for treatment for this important problem with short- and long-term complications.
Osteolytic monostotic Paget's disease of the fifth lumbar vertebra. A case report.  Osteolytic monostotic Paget's disease or osteitis deformans of the fifth lumbar vertebra occurred in a 55-year-old woman.  An isolated lytic process involving the entire vertebral body and posterior elements and an open biopsy showed extensive remodeling with cement lines, myelofibrosis, and osteoclastic resorption typical of Paget's disease.
Cobb angle versus spinous process angle in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. The relationship of the anterior and posterior deformities.  The standard clinical measurement for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is the Cobb angle, measured from the end-plates of the end vertebral bodies in a standing radiograph.  This measurement of anterior column structures describes the anterior spinal deformity.  The posterior spinal deformity can be described by the "spinous process angle," measured from a curve joining the tips of the spinous processes.  A computer model, and a radiographic study of Cobb angle, spinous process angle and vertebral rotation show that adolescent idiopathic scoliosis results in larger angulations of the anterior elements than posterior elements.  This helps to explain some of the inherent limitations of posterior instrumentation, including Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation, and of noninvasive posterior surface measurement systems.
Large cell orbital lymphoma in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Case report and review   Despite the protean ocular manifestations of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), orbital involvement is rare and only one previous case of orbital non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) has been documented.  We report a second case of NHL (large cell) of the orbit in a 28-year-old patient with a 4-year history of AIDS and review the context in which this lesion presented.
Effect of thiazide on rates of bone mineral loss: a longitudinal study [published erratum appears in BMJ 1991 Jan 26;302(6770):18]  OBJECTIVE--To determine the effect of thiazide diuretic drugs on rates of bone mineral loss.  DESIGN--Longitudinal, observational study with a mean follow up of five years.  SETTING--Hawaii Osteoporosis Center, Honolulu.  SUBJECTS--1017 Japanese-American men born between 1900 and 1920, of whom 378 were treated for hypertension (study group) and 639 did not have hypertension (control group).  INTERVENTION--Thiazide diuretics were taken by 325 men for a mean of 11.9 years; 53 men took antihypertensive drugs other than thiazides.  MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Rate of bone loss estimated from serial photon absorptiometric scanning at three skeletal sites (calcaneus, distal radius, and proximal radius).  RESULTS--Rates of bone loss at all three sites were significantly reduced among thiazide users when compared with controls.  The reductions in loss rate ranged from 28.8% (p = 0.02) (distal radius) to 49.2% (p = 0.0005) (calcaneus) relative to the controls.  At all three sites the men taking other antihypertensive drugs had faster loss rates (22.6-43.1%) than those of the controls but the difference was significant only for the distal radius.  CONCLUSION--Thiazide diuretics slow the rate of bone loss in elderly men.
Decompensation after Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation of idiopathic scoliosis.  Spinal decompensation after corrective surgery for scoliosis appears to be a significant problem after Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation (CDI).  CDI produces torsional changes in the instrumented and uninstrumented spine that could result in spinal imbalance.  Preoperative and postoperative three-dimensional analysis including computed tomography (CT) scans to measure vertebral rotation and segmental rotation were performed to evaluate the importance of torsional changes.  Moe/King Type II deformities had a substantially greater risk of imbalance.  Deformities instrumented over fewer spinal segments were less likely to decompensate.  Specifically, instrumentation excluding the mobile transition segment, determined by maximum segmental rotation and segmental Cobb angle, was likely to decompensate.  Derotation and deformity correction excessive in relation to preoperative side bending flexibility and segmental rotation frequently resulted in imbalance.  Spinal imbalance after CDI can be reduced by avoiding overcorrection and inclusion of mobile transition segments.
Transforming growth factor beta 1 suppresses acute and chronic arthritis in experimental animals.  Systemic administration of the cytokine, TGF beta 1, profoundly antagonized the development of polyarthritis in susceptible rats.  TGF beta 1 administration (1 or 5 micrograms/animal), initiated one day before an arthritogenic dose of streptococcal cell wall (SCW) fragments, virtually eliminated the joint swelling and distortion typically observed during both the acute phase (articular index, AI = 2.5 vs.  11; P less than 0.025) and the chronic phase (AI = 0 vs.  12.5) of the disease.  Moreover, TGF beta 1 suppressed the evolution of arthritis even when administration was begun after the acute phase of the disease.  Histopathological examination of the joint revealed the systemic TGF beta 1 treatment greatly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration, pannus formation, and joint erosion.  Consistent with the inhibition of inflammatory cell recruitment into the synovium, TGF beta 1 reversed the leukocytosis associated with the chronic phase of the arthritis.  Control animals subjected to the same TGF beta 1 dosing regimen displayed no discernable immunosuppressive or toxic effects even after 4 wk of treatment.  These observations not only provide insight into the immunoregulatory effects of TGF beta, but also implicate this cytokine as a potentially important therapeutic agent.
Pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtDNA.  A patient is described who has features of Pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia.  He later developed hepatic, renal, and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction.  At the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment, tremor, ataxia, proximal muscle weakness, external ophthalmoplegia, and a pigmentary retinopathy (Kearns-Sayre syndrome).  Muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy.  Analysis of mtDNA from leukocytes and muscle showed mtDNA heteroplasmy in both tissues, with one population of mtDNA deleted by 4.9 kb.  The deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtDNA.  Both Pearson syndrome and Kearns-Sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtDNA; they have not previously been described in the same patient.  These observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtDNAs and modified by selection against them in different tissues.
Differential regulation of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and IGF-II release from cultured neonatal mouse calvaria by parathyroid hormone, transforming growth factor-beta, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.  In a previous study we found that PTH stimulated bone resorption and release of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and IGF-II from cultured neonatal mouse calvaria.  Since IGF-I and IGF-II stimulate osteoblast proliferation and collagen synthesis, these results suggested that increased release of IGFs during resorption could mediate in part coupling of bone formation to bone resorption.  In the present study two other osteolytic agents, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF beta) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3 were examined for effects on IGF release from neonatal mouse calvaria.  Like PTH, TGF beta stimulated resorption and increased release of IGF-I and IGF-II.  1,25-(OH)2D3, however, stimulated resorption and IGF-II release comparable to PTH, but inhibited release of IGF-I.  1,25-(OH)2D3 (0.1-100 nM) inhibited basal release of IGF-I, and 10 nM 1,25-(OH)2D3 inhibited release of IGF-I induced by PTH or TGF beta.  The effects of 1,25-(OH)2D3 were specific to this vitamin D metabolite and did not occur with 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 or 24,25-(OH)2D3 at the same concentration.  Calcitonin (50 mU/ml) decreased 1,25-(OH)2D3 stimulation of resorption, but did not affect 1,25-(OH)2D3 stimulation of IGF-II release and inhibition of IGF-I release.  This evidence that effects of 1,25-(OH)2D3 on release of the IGFs were independent of bone resorption supports the conclusion that 1,25-(OH)2D3 modulated the production and secretion of IGF-I and IGF-II in calvarial cells.  The results of this and the previous study suggest that PTH, TGF beta, and 1,25-(OH)2D3 differentially regulate mouse calvarial cell IGF-I and IGF-II production.
Prevalence of tendinitis and related disorders of the upper extremity in a manufacturing workforce.  A cross sectional survey of a randomly selected population of 2,261 textile workers form an overall population of 8,539 eligible workers was performed to evaluate the prevalence of tendinitis in related upper extremity disorders.  Of the sample, 2,047 respondents (91.3%) participated in a nurse screening history and examination: 1,091 (53%) had no upper extremity symptoms or abnormalities on examination; 959 (47%) with positive findings were examined by trained physicians.  Of these, 347 (36.5%) were found to have no abnormality, whereas, 548 (57.3%) workers were assigned a diagnosis.  Of these 227 were considered to fall into the categories of tendinitis (n = 69) or related disorders (n = 158).  The projected prevalence of tendinitis and related disorders for the overall group was 11.6% (carpal tunnel syndrome 1.1%, epicondylitis 2.0%, tendinitis 3.5%, shoulder condition 2.3%, ganglion 2.3%, neck conditions 4.0%).  Tendinitis was less frequent in the older age group and those employed for a longer time.  The prevalence of tendinitis was found to be statistically higher in physically demanding job categories.  Ninety-four percent of ailments were of mild or moderate severity.  Although our study provides prevalence data for these conditions in a large manufacturing workforce across several job categories.
Animal models of osteomyelitis. Knowledge, hypothesis, and speculation.  Each animal model has provided insights.  Particularly important was the considerable resistance of bone to infection without manipulation (no morrhuate, fracture, rod, wax, or prosthesis).  Such perturbations allow bone infection with much smaller inocula.  Typical inocula decreases are 1000 to 10,000 fold.  Staphylococci may have a selective advantage in bone because of specialized or tropic binding, perhaps to cartilage or collagen.  Osteoclast-induced resorption of hydroxyapatite might explain the distribution of some osteomyelitis.  Increased osteoclast activity could link the susceptible metaphyseal regions, the repetitively traumatized diabetic foot, a history of blunt bone trauma, fracture, and perhaps even nearby soft tissue infection.  Diagnosis remains difficult; gallium-67 and indium111 labeled WBC probably deserve additional investigation.  Therapeutic failures in the rabbit and rat models mirror clinical experience.  Clindamycin, rifampin, and quinolones are promising.  Neither systemic nor local antimicrobial prophylaxis is well studied yet.
Immediate complications of Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation to the sacro-pelvis. A clinical and biomechanical study.  The authors reviewed the early complications in all patients fused to the sacro-pelvis using Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation at the Texas Scottish Rite Hospital.  Sixteen patients were studied with an average follow-up of 13 months.  Three methods of sacro-pelvis fixation were evaluated: iliosacral screws, sacral screws, and a technique whereby the caudle ends of the Cotrel-Dubousset rods were fashioned and inserted into the posterior iliac crest using the Galveston technique.  Seven of the 16 sets of sacral screws (44%) failed during and after surgery.  Two of the 7 sets of iliosacral screws failed postoperatively (28%).  No failures occurred in the 8 sets of Cotrel-Dubousset rods placed with the Galveston technique.  Seven of the nine medical complications observed (77%) occurred in the sacral screw group.  Using calf spines, a biomechanical evaluation of each system was undertaken to determine strength of fixation.  Each system was failed in flexion 3 times.  The sacral screws were the weakest, pulling directly out of the sacrum at 40 N-M.  Cotrel-Dubousset rods inserted with the Galveston technique were the strongest, experiencing rod deformities before flexion failure at 70 N-M.  Iliosacral screws were of intermediate strength failing by rotation on the axis of the screws or pulling directly out of the ilium at 55 N-M.  The authors conclude that using Cotrel-Dubousset rods inserted with the Galveston techniques was the strongest and safest method of sacro-pelvis fixation of the three tested.
Normal dystrophin in McLeod myopathy.  Dystrophin and its gene were studied in a patient with McLeod syndrome.  This X-linked recessive myopathy has been localized to Xp21, as has the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene locus, which codes for dystrophin.  Histopathological study of the patient's muscle showed mild subclinical myopathy.  Immunological studies of dystrophin in two separate biopsy specimens and analysis of dystrophin gene DNA from a blood sample did not detect an abnormality.  This suggests that the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene, albeit close to the McLeod locus, is not involved in McLeod myopathy.
Microheterogeneity of acute phase proteins in the differentiation of polymyalgia rheumatica from polymyositis.  We studied an alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) and an alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (ACHT) microheterogeneity in sera of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR), giant cell arteritis (GCA/PMR), polymyositis/dermatomyositis (PM/DM) and healthy individuals by affinity electrophoresis with concanavalin A (Con-A) as the ligand.  Our results are expressed as reactivity coefficients.  The mean of AGP reactivity coefficients (AG-RC +/- SD) in PMR (0.92 +/- 0.17) and GCA/PMR (0.91 +/- 0.12) were significantly lower compared with the mean AG-RC in patients with PM/DM (1.48 +/- 0.52) as well as in healthy individuals (1.34 +/- 0.9).  Moreover, an additional microheterogeneous form of AGP was noted in patients with PM/DM.  In parallel, we also found that the mean of ACHT reactivity coefficients (AC-RC +/- SD) were lower in patients with PMR (2.94 +/- 1.24) and GCA/PMR (1.66 +/- 0.16) compared with healthy individuals (3.92 +/- 1.17).  The mean of AC-RC in patients with PM/DM (6.74 +/- 4.35) was significantly higher than in patients with PMR and GCA/PMR as well as in healthy individuals.  Our results show that the changes in reactivity of AGP and ACHT with Con-A are useful diagnostic markers for the differentiation of PMR and GCA/PMR from PM/DM.
Management of symptomatic lymphocele via percutaneous drainage and sclerotherapy with tetracycline.  Lymph collections following pelvic surgery are usually asymptomatic, but may occasionally produce symptoms requiring invasive therapy.  We have successfully obliterated a large lymphocele by employing percutaneous drainage and instilling tetracycline.
Hypercalcemia in malignancy.  The pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in malignancy has been enigmatic until recent years.  Since the realization in 1980 that bioassays for parathyroid hormone detected a cross-reacting substance in malignancy, progress has been remarkably rapid.  A parathyroid hormone-related protein was purified and identified by molecular cloning as a 141-amino acid peptide with limited homology to parathyroid hormone itself.  Nonetheless, both peptides activate the parathyroid hormone receptor to produce hypercalcemia.  It is now clear that the parathyroid hormone-related protein is the cause of hypercalcemia in most solid tumors, particularly squamous and renal carcinomas.  New assays for the hormone as well as the related peptide have greatly simplified the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia.  At the same time, new agents for the treatment of hypercalcemia are becoming available, most notably the bisphosphonate drugs.
T-plasty modification of the Bankart procedure for multidirectional instability of the anterior and inferior types.  Forty patients who had a diagnosis of multidirectional instability of forty-two shoulders had a modified Bankart operation in which a T-shaped incision was made in the anterior portion of the capsule, with advancement of the inferior flap superiorly and of the superior flap medially.  All of the patients had been injured during athletic activities.  Some degree of anterior labral injury was present in thirty-eight of the forty-two shoulders.  Half of the patients had generalized ligamentous laxity.  The patients were followed for an average of three years (range, two to seven years).  Four patients had episodes of instability after the operation.  Three had a single episode of posterior subluxation during throwing, one had recurrent posterior subluxation that subsequently was treated by posterior stabilization, and one had anterior subluxation while he was diving from a high board.  The average loss of external rotation after the operation was 5 degrees with the arm at the side and 4 degrees with the arm abducted 90 degrees.  Satisfaction of the patient was rated excellent for forty (95 per cent) of the shoulders, good for one shoulder, and fair for one shoulder.  However, throwing athletes found that they were unable to throw a ball with as much speed as before the operation.
Systemic mastocytosis presenting as osteoporosis: a clinical and histomorphometric study.  Ten patients with systemic mastocytosis (SM) were evaluated for their metabolic bone disease (4 men and 6 women; mean +/- SD, 59 +/- 13 yr).  All patients presented with generalized osteopenia and/or atraumatic vertebral compression fractures.  Three patients had long-standing urticaria pigmentosa; in these, the diagnosis of cutaneous mastocytosis had been established by skin biopsy.  One of the 3 and 2 of the other 7 individuals had symptoms suggestive of SM.  Although six patients had previously undergone decalcified bone marrow trephine core biopsy (DBMB), findings were consistent with SM in only 2 of them.  X-Ray survey revealed generalized osteopenia in all 10 patients and vertebral compression fractures in 9.  No patient had sclerotic bone lesions.  Histological findings of undecalcified transiliac crest biopsy (UTBB) specimens from 9 patients (5 patients underwent both DBMB and UTBB, 4 underwent only UTBB, and 1 had only DBMB) disclosed bone marrow that contained nodules characteristic of mast cell granulomas and numerous scattered oval- and spindle-shaped mast cells.  The trabecular bone contained abundant newly synthesized bone matrix and a significant increase in osteoblastic, osteoclastic, and resorptive surfaces.  Dynamic histomorphometric parameters revealed a significantly increased mineral apposition rate.  Our study suggests that SM may be a more frequent cause of osteoporosis than previously recognized.  Generalized osteopenia with compression fractures may be the only presentation of SM.  Undecalcified bone biopsy is useful in the diagnosis of SM.  Accelerated bone remodeling is a characteristic histomorphometric feature of SM with diffuse osteopenia.
Diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible: a new concept of its etiology.  Diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible is a disease of unknown etiology.  The clinical and radiographic findings suggest an infectious origin, but bacteriologic and histologic findings do not support this concept.  Analysis of clinical symptoms, localization of the condition, and posttreatment findings in a group of 27 patients suggest a chronic tendoperiostitis due to muscular overuse as an etiologic factor in diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible.  This hypothesis was supported by the initial results of muscle relaxation treatment in 13 of these patients.
Hyperbaric oxygen as adjunctive therapy for osteomyelitis.  Mechanistically, hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) appears useful for the treatment of osteomyelitis.  HBO increases the oxygen tension in infected tissue, including bone.  An adequate oxygen tension is necessary for oxygen-dependent killing of organisms by the polymorphonuclear leukocytes and for fibroblast activity leading to angiogenesis and wound healing.  HBO has a direct bacteriocidal or bacteriostatic effect on anaerobic organisms.  In addition, HBO augments the killing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by the aminoglycoside--tobramycin.  At the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, adjunctive HBO is used for the Cierny Mader stage 3B and 4B osteomyelitis.
Corticosteroid injections in adhesive capsulitis: investigation of their value and site.  Forty-eight patients with frozen shoulder for less than six months were assigned at random to receive three shoulder injections into the subacromial bursa or glenohumeral joint at weekly intervals.  The treatment groups were (1) intra-articular methylprednisolone and lidocaine, (2) intrabursal methylprednisolone and lidocaine, (3) intra-articular lidocaine, (4) intrabursal lidocaine.  The same physical therapy program was carried out for all patients.  Assessments of pain and range of motion were performed by a physical therapist who was uninformed about the nature of the injection therapy.  There was no significant difference in outcome between intrabursal injection and intra-articular injection.  Injection of steroid with lidocaine had no advantage over lidocaine alone in restoring shoulder motion, but partial, transient pain relief occurred in two thirds of the steroid-treated patients.
Rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis occurring in a patient with lupus nephritis receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.  We present a patient who developed rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis while receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.  She developed chronic renal failure on the basis of lupus nephritis.  Hydroxyapatite crystals were isolated from periarticular deposits and identified using phase contrast light microscopy and electron microscopy.  Conservative management using phosphate binding agents and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was unsuccessful and lesions were excised surgically.
Musculoskeletal infection, microbial adhesion, and antibiotic resistance.  Osteomyelitis and intra-articular infection are septic diseases that present pathogenic features characteristic of molecular mechanisms involving adhesion to substrata.  In this review, mechanisms of microbial adhesion to bone and cartilage as substrata are presented and related to host tissue response and to antibiotic treatment.
Congenital monomelic hypertrophy with progressive myopathy.  We describe a patient with congenital monomelic hypertrophy who later developed progressive footdrop due to a degenerative myopathy.  The clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic features of the case are described and compared with those of a previously reported case.
